US20260111363A1：

Description
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
[0001]
This application claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 63/709,935, filed Oct. 21, 2024, which is incorporate herein by this reference in its entirety.
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0002]
Technical fields to which this disclosure relates include automated agents. Other technical fields to which this disclosure relates include the construction and application of large language model (LLM)-based agents.
COPYRIGHT NOTICE
[0003]
This patent document, including the accompanying drawings, contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction of this patent document, as it appears in the publicly accessible records of the United States Patent and Trademark Office, consistent with the fair use principles of the United States copyright laws, but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.
BACKGROUND
[0004]
Automated agents include hardware and/or software components that are capable of performing user-level tasks and actions without or with minimal direct human instruction. Agents differ from daemons and other computer programs that run as background processes in the level of complexity of the tasks they execute and the degree to which the agents are capable of interacting with human users.
[0005]
A device or system may include one or more autonomous and/or semi-autonomous agents. For example, a vehicle may include an autonomous agent that controls the vehicle in response to sensor signals, without asking a human operator whether to, e.g., step on the brake or turn the steering wheel. A semi-autonomous agent of the vehicle may automatically load a map with a navigation plan to get the human driver home to a known destination but then wait for the human driver to confirm the plan and start the vehicle before starting down the road.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0006]
The disclosure will be understood more fully from the detailed description given below and from the accompanying drawings of various examples of the disclosure. The drawings are for explanation and understanding only and should not be taken to limit the disclosure to the specific examples shown.
[0007]
FIG. 1 is a component-based flow diagram of an example method for agent-based task execution using an action store in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0008]
FIG. 2A is a schematic diagram of an example of a data structure for an action in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0009]
FIG. 2B is a schematic diagram of an example of action mappings in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0010]
FIG. 2C is a schematic diagram of an example of action to memory layer mappings in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0011]
FIG. 3 is a component-based flow diagram of an example method for agent-based task execution in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0012]
FIG. 4 is a component-based flow diagram of an example method for action store management in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0013]
FIG. 5A, FIG. 5B, and FIG. 5C are schematic diagrams of examples of learned action store updates in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0014]
FIG. 6 is a component-based flow diagram of an example method for configuring and/or operating a multi-agent system in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0015]
FIG. 7A, FIG. 7B, FIG. 7C, FIG. 7D illustrate examples of processes for agent configuration, including example depictions of graphical user interface elements, in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0016]
FIG. 8A is a schematic diagram of an apparatus for action store management in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0017]
FIG. 8B is a flow diagram of an example method for agent-based task execution using an action store in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0018]
FIG. 8C is a flow diagram of an example method for action store management in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0019]
FIG. 9 is a component-based flow diagram of an example method for configuring and/or operating an agent using components of an agent system in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0020]
FIG. 10 is a component-based flow diagram of an example method for creating and configuring an agent using components of an agent system in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0021]
FIG. 11A is a component-based flow diagram of an example of a layered memory structure for an agent in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0022]
FIG. 11B is a component-based flow diagram of an example of a layered memory structure for an agent in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0023]
FIG. 12 is a block diagram of a computing system that includes an agent system in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0024]
FIG. 13A, FIG. 13B, FIG. 13C, FIG. 13D, FIG. 13E are block diagrams of examples of machine learning models that are usable by and/or included in an agent system in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0025]
FIG. 14 is a block diagram of an example computer system including components of an agent system in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0026]
A generative artificial intelligence (GAI) model, generative machine learning model (GMLM), or generative model is capable of using artificial intelligence technology, e.g., machine learning models, e.g., neural networks, to machine-generate digital content based on model inputs and the previously existing data with which the model has been trained. A generative language model is a particular type of GAI model that is capable of generating content in response to model input. The model input includes a task description, also referred to as a prompt or instruction. The task description includes one or more instructions (e.g., natural language or multimodal instructions, such as “please generate a summary of these search results,” “please generate a caption for this image,” or a video recording of, for instance, a demonstration of how to perform a task) and/or examples of digital content, such as text or multimodal content (e.g., digital images, videos, articles, audio, or other content produced using a particular language, format, writing style, or tone). In some examples, portions of the task description are in the form of natural language text, such as a question or statement. In some examples, a task description or prompt includes non-text forms of content, such as digital images, video, and/or audio.
[0027]
A large language model (LLM) is a type of generative language model that is trained in an unsupervised way or self-supervised way on massive amounts of unlabeled data, such as publicly available texts extracted from the Internet, using deep learning techniques. In some examples, an LLM is capable of performing multiple different tasks across multiple different domains. A language model (LM) is similar in function and/or architecture to an LLM except that the LM is often trained on a much smaller dataset, e.g., to perform a domain-specific task. A language model or large language model is configurable to perform one or more natural language processing (NLP) tasks, such as generating content, classifying content, answering questions in a conversational manner, and translating content from one language to another.
[0028]
GMLMs, and more specifically, large language models (LLMs), have demonstrated the ability to perform relatively simple tasks (e.g., single-step tasks or tasks that do not include any sub-tasks) using a conversational natural language question and answer format. However, using LLMs to build autonomous or semi-autonomous agents that are capable of performing more complex tasks (e.g., multi-step tasks or tasks that have one or more sub-tasks) is much more technically challenging. This is because complex tasks especially require the agents to perform consistently and generate output in a user-expected and reliable manner, but the inherent nature of LLMs is that the output of the LLMs can be unpredictable, particularly if the task is ambiguous or not well-defined. The risk of unpredictable output by LLMs is a deterrent to the widespread use of LLMs to build autonomous or semi-autonomous agents.
[0029]
Another technical challenge that often limits the performance and usability of GMLMs for agent-based applications is that they lack self-awareness. That is, the GMLM's knowledge base is limited to its training data, and the GMLM has no way of “knowing” that other relevant information exists outside the realm of its training data. In these cases, the GMLM is likely to engage in “AI hallucination,” through which the GMLM generates a response to the request using the training data and inputs it has been provided. Such responses often include inaccurate, unreliable, or nonsensical output due to AI hallucination. As a result, the GMLM often does not perform well for very specialized tasks or newly emerging tasks. This is often especially true for LLMs, which are usually trained on large web-based corpora that do not reflect the specific context and goals of a particular agent. Fine-tuning the LLM or carefully designing the agent prompts or architectures is sometimes helpful mitigate this issue. However, these approaches are time consuming and resource intensive, and are therefore not well-suited for dynamic or real-time environments.
[0030]
Another technical challenge is that, in non-GMLM task-oriented software applications, the representation of data and data relationships, such as relationships between tasks (also referred to as requests or intents) and actions (also referred to as skills), is often accomplished using a structured approach, such as a taxonomy, which are structurally complex and resource-intensive to maintain. Currently available tools for building task-oriented applications with GMLMs do not provide a standardized way to represent data relationships. This lack of uniformity in data representation for GMLMs hinders data integration across modeling frameworks and software tools, making it challenging to implement agent-based task execution within a heterogenous ecosystem of machine learning models such as GMLMs and/or other software tools.
[0031]
Various examples described herein seek to mitigate these and/or other technical challenges. For instance, examples provide task management components that query an action store (also referred to as a skill registry in some examples) for dynamic task-based agent configuration. Examples provide action store management components that enable dynamic creating, configuring, and updating of the action store based on, e.g., task execution output, performance data, and/or feedback.
[0032]
As described in more detail below, examples include an action store that is hierarchical, and multi-layer, as well as a pre-processing task management component, and a post-processing action store management component. The hierarchical, multi-layer action store is indexed for efficient retrieval of actions from the action store in order to supply agents with actions (e.g., executable elements) needed to perform tasks responsively as those tasks are requested by entities, such as users, other agents, processes, components, devices, or systems. The action store is a type of database that stores actions. Creating and managing the action store is not straightforward and in various examples is achieved in a manner that is particularly efficient through the use of memory layers and a hierarchical arrangement of actions in the action store. As a result the action store is usable by one or more agents to perform tasks with high performance.
[0033]
In various examples there is an apparatus for constructing and managing an action store for use by agents when executing tasks. The apparatus comprises a processor and a first memory comprising an action store. The action store is a type of database or data store. The action store comprises a plurality of memory layers. By using a plurality of memory layers it is possible to differentially control accessibility to individual ones of the memory layers to facilitate security. By using a plurality of memory layers it is possible to differentially control priority of querying individual ones of the memory layers to control how agents retrieve actions. The plurality of memory layers are in a hierarchical arrangement such as a stack or other hierarchical data structure.
[0034]
The action store is designed to facilitate data-driven (e.g., trial and error, observation and feedback) approaches for managing the action store, which are facilitated by a hierarchical data structure and multi-layer memory of actions, memory layers, first mappings among actions, and second mappings among actions and memory layers. The hierarchical data structure stores first mappings among actions and second mappings among actions and memory layers. The first mappings specify hierarchical relationships or dependencies between or among actions, e.g., in a tree structure. The multi-layer memory includes multiple different layers of memory into which different actions and/or different versions of actions are stored such that different actions are stored in different memory layers and/or different versions of an action are stored in different memory layers. The second mappings specify relationships between actions and memory layers in which the actions are stored. An example is shown in FIG. 2C. An action comprises an executable element capable of being executed by an at least semi-autonomous agent. In an example, an action is software executed by a physical robot in the environment. In another example, an action is software executed by a digital agent being operated by a human.
[0035]
In various examples the apparatus for constructing and managing the action store has a second memory comprising an instruction that, when executed by the processor, is to cause the processor to create or update the first mappings, the second mappings, or the first mappings and the second mappings, in response to at least one signal received from the agent via a device. In an example, a human user operating a digital agent deployed on a computer being operated by the human sends a signal which is received by the second memory. In another example, a physical robot sends a signal which is received by the second memory. The second memory creates or updates mappings in the action store in response to the signal thus giving data-driven (e.g., trial and error, observation and feedback) management of the action store. The signal contains information about results of execution of one or more actions.
[0036]
The pre-processing component performs task management for an agent including configurating and executing tasks. In some examples, the pre-processing component converts entity requests to tasks and queries the action store to identify actions that are used to accomplish the identified task. In some examples, the pre-processing component uses one or more GMLMs to perform one or more aspects of the pre-processing.
[0037]
The post-processing component performs action store management including maintaining and updating the action store. For instance, the post-processing component incorporates signals received during task execution into the action store, for example by adding new actions to the action store, removing actions from the action store, assigning actions to memory layers, combining multiple sub-actions into a single action, dividing an action into multiple sub-actions, adding, removing, or updating mappings between actions; adding, removing, or updating mappings between actions and memory layers; and/or moving actions from one memory layer to another memory layer. In some examples, the post-processing component uses one or more trajectory optimization methods to perform one or more aspects of the post-processing.
[0038]
Some examples relate to the structure and management of an action store for an agent-based task execution system. Examples include data-driven (e.g., trial and error, observation and feedback) approaches for managing the action store. In some examples, data-driven approaches as described are facilitated by a hierarchical data structure and multi-layer memory.
[0039]
Some examples address the problem of identifying and/or creating actions in the action store that correspond to requested tasks. Examples provide querying approaches that facilitate the use of GMLMs to solve this problem without needing to fine-tune the GMLMs themselves.
[0040]
Some examples address the problem of task interpretation and/or clarification. Examples provide iterative approaches that use the action store and one or more GMLMs to interpret or clarify tasks by decomposing ambiguous or higher-level tasks into groups or series of well-defined or lower-level tasks.
[0041]
Examples of tasks that are capable of being requested by an entity (such as a user, device, network, model, or another agent) include hardware-centric and/or software-centric tasks. These and/or other tasks are performed by one or more autonomous or semi-autonomous automated agents, in various examples.
[0042]
An example of a task that relates to network security is detecting and resolving a denial of service attack. An example of a task that relates to devices for managing network traffic is load balancing. An example of a task that relates to embedded control systems is the control of a robotic device such as a robotic vacuum cleaner or autonomous vehicle. An example of a task that relates to application security or access control is detecting and disabling fraudulent accounts. An example of a task that relates to content distribution systems is controlling the routing of digital content on a network. Examples of tasks that relate to agent-based task management include controlling which agents are invoked in response to different inputs and coordinating the execution of multiple different agents involved in a task. Examples described herein are capable of configuring and controlling agents to perform these and many other types of tasks.
[0043]
Some examples address the problem of learning new tasks. In some examples, task learning occurs when the action store does not contain any actions that map to a requested task or in response to feedback signals received during a task execution. Some examples use a multi-layer memory to maintain different versions of different actions at different memory layers so that if an action is not found at one layer, another layer is queried. Some examples improve fault tolerance of an agent by enabling the agent to perform a task, even if in a sub-optimal way, instead of failing to perform the task at all. In some examples, the agent learns an optimal way of performing that same task based on feedback and/or performance metrics, and incorporate that learning into a subsequent execution of the task, such as even the very next execution of the task. Some examples use the multi-layer memory to persist learnings obtained from one task execution for subsequent executions.
[0044]
Some examples address the problem of controlling the level of autonomy assigned to an agent. In some examples, the action store stores metadata including mutability characteristics of actions, which are used to identify actions that are capable of giving self-mutable capabilities to agents. Some examples employ a policies/configuration data store to maintain associations between agents and permitted levels of agent autonomy, such that at the time of agent configuration, the policies/configuration data is compared to the action metadata in the action store, to determine whether an action is properly assignable to an agent.
[0045]
In various examples there is a computer-implemented method comprising using an input to determine a task, wherein the input is obtained via a device and an at least semi-autonomous agent. Using input from a device such as a user's computer where a semi-autonomous agent is deployed, gives ease of use to end users. In some examples, the input is user input, or observations from sensors at the device, or results of a process executing at the user device, or at a physical robot where the device is a physical robot such as a humanoid robot or a self-driving vehicle. The task is used to search an action store, wherein the action store comprises a hierarchical arrangement of actions and an action is executable via the at least semi-autonomous agent. Using an action store with a hierarchical arrangement of actions enables efficient searching of the action store. Using an action store with a hierarchical arrangement of actions gives a compact action store. In response to determining that the action store comprises an action that corresponds to the task, providing access to the agent to execute the action. Thus, the agent is able to access an appropriate action in an efficient manner. The agent is triggered to execute action.
[0046]
In various examples there is a computer-implemented method comprising receiving a signal via an agent, wherein the signal relates to a first execution of a task by the agent using an action store. In a non-limiting example, the task is a security task such as detecting and blocking malicious access to a cloud service and the semi-autonomous agent is security software executing on a user computing device. In the non-limiting example, the signal relates to first execution of the detecting and blocking malicious access to the cloud service by the security software.
[0047]
The action store comprises a hierarchical arrangement of memory layers. Using a hierarchical arrangement of memory layers facilitates updating of the action store in a data driven fashion. The action store comprises a plurality of actions stored in one or more of the memory layers; and the action store stores first mappings between actions, and second mappings between actions and memory layers, where the first mappings among actions are hierarchical. Having the first mappings being hierarchical enables a compact storage giving efficiency. Having second mappings between actions and memory layers facilitates efficient searching for actions that are applicable to different agents or contexts. An action is executable by the agent. In the non-limiting example the signal is an observation of whether or not malicious access to the cloud service occurred in a specified time period.
[0048]
The signal is used to modify at least a portion of the action store, such as by deleting an action which failed to give a successful outcome or moving an action which gave a successful outcome into a persisted memory layer, thus enabling data driven update of the action store. In an example, an action is to add a two factor authentication procedure to an account access process for accessing the cloud service. The signal is a successful outcome i.e., no malicious access to the cloud service in the specified time. At least the modified portion of the action store is provided to a second execution of the task by the at least semi-autonomous agent. In this way the agent learns since the changes in the action store result in changes in the actions executed by the agent.
[0049]
In some examples, agent refers to a semi-autonomous or autonomous software system that is able to consume information and/or signals from its environment, execute logic, reasoning, and learning processes, and perform actions to achieve a specific goal or set of goals with minimal human guidance/intervention. In some examples, agents have multiple levels of autonomy. Some agents have the capacity to perform tasks requiring complex understanding, reasoning, learning, and adaptability. Some agents are capable of processing and interpreting natural language and/or multimodal digital content, determine relevant context, formulate plans, and learn from interactions or data inputs. Some agents dynamically adapt their processing capabilities in response to changing environments or goals. Some agents are capable of interacting with human users and other systems, including other agents or groups of agents. Unlike simpler automated systems, agents are data-driven and are capable of utilizing machine learning and/or deep learning techniques to improve their performance over time, making them suitable for a wide range of applications including digital assistance, personalized learning, and sophisticated problem-solving scenarios.
[0050]
In some examples, entity refers to users, other types of entities, such as companies, organizations, institutions, associations, cohorts, or groups of entities, and/or to technological entities such as devices, networks, systems, components, processes, models, or agents. Any aspects of any examples that are described in the context of users are applicable to other types of entities in other examples. In some examples, any entity has one or more associated agents that are dynamically configured for a particular role or task using the approaches described herein.
[0051]
In some examples, terminology such as “real time” or “dynamic” refers to a time delay introduced by the use of computer technology, e.g., by back end data processing and/or network transmission, where the time delay is the difference in time, as measured, e.g., by a system clock, between the occurrence of an online event and the use of data processed in response to the event, such as for display, feedback, and/or control purposes. In some examples, real time or dynamic refers to a time interval between a user input to a computer system and a presentation of output by the computer system. In some examples, dynamic indicates that one or more system components, data structures or data stores, e.g., agents, actions, databases, vector stores, memory layers, etc., are updated, reconfigured, or refreshed within a time interval that is less than the time interval between two different inputs to a computer system. In some examples, an agent accesses a first action al and execute the first action al to prepare and present a response r1 to a first input i1 (e.g., a user interaction, sensor signal, etc.) with a computer system at a time t1. In some examples, the computer system obtains feedback f1 related to the response r1 at a time t2 which is greater than or equal to the time t1. At a time t3, the first action al is modified or updated by the computer system based on the feedback f1. If the computer system receives a second input i2 at a time t4, and time t4 is greater than or equal to the time t3, then the first action al is considered to have been updated dynamically, in some examples. Agents, actions, data stores, and/or memories are dynamically updated or reconfigured in some examples.
[0052]
In some examples, learning, machine learning, or training refers to machine learning-based processes executed to improve agent performance of tasks and achievement of goals by agents. Examples of machine learning-based processes include processes used to configure, train, pre-train, or fine tune machine learning models, such as but not limited to supervised machine learning, semi-supervised machine learning, unsupervised machine learning, prompt engineering, reinforcement learning, in context learning, retrieval-augmented generation (RAG), retrieval-augmented fine tuning (RAFT), Chain-of-Thought reasoning, and/or Bayesian-style inference learning. In some examples, RAG or RAFT are be used to perform domain-specific fine tuning of a pre-trained machine learning model using, e.g., samples of digital content that represent the desired domain-specific knowledge. In some examples using RAG, digital content is stored in and retrieved from a data store, e.g., a database such as a vector database, using queries that are formulated to measure the similarity between the digital content in the vector database and the query, question, or request being asked. In some examples, embedding-based retrieval is used to match vector representations of digital content stored in a vector database with a vector representation of a query, question, or request. With in-context learning, the retrieved content is used as input to an LM or LLM, which generates a response to the input including the RAG content. In some examples, the RAG content is paired with an expected output to produce a training input-output pair, which is used to fine tune the LM or LLM. Approaches such as RAFT are usable to customize an LM or LLM according to a particular entity's preferences for performing a task. In some examples, RAFT is used to retrieve context data from multi-layer memory structures and the retrieved context data is used to fine tune a machine learning model. Additional examples of machine learning models and machine learning-based processes are described with reference to FIG. 13A, FIG. 13B, FIG. 13C, FIG. 13D, FIG. 13E.
[0053]
In some examples, dialog, chat, or conversation refer to one or more conversational threads involving a user of a computing device and an application. In some examples, a dialog or conversation has an associated user identifier, session identifier, conversation identifier, or dialog identifier, and an associated timestamp. In some examples, thread refers to one or more rounds of dialog involving the user and an application. In some examples, a round of dialog refers to a user input and an associated system-generated response, e.g., a reply to the user input that is generated at least in part via a generative artificial intelligence model. Any dialog or thread includes one or more different types of digital content, including natural language text, audio, video, digital imagery, hyperlinks, source code, and/or multimodal content such as web pages.
[0054]
Certain aspects of the disclosed technologies are described in the context of generative artificial intelligence models that receive text input and output text. However, the disclosed technologies are not limited to generative models that receive text input and produce text output. In some examples, aspects of the disclosed technologies are used to receive input and/or generate output that includes non-text forms of content, such as digital imagery, videos, multimedia, audio, hyperlinks, source code, and/or platform-independent file formats.
[0055]
Certain aspects of the disclosed technologies are described in the context of electronic dialogs conducted via a network with an application system, such as a message- or chat-based application system or a search interface of an online system such as a social network system. However, aspects of the disclosed technologies are not limited to message- or chat-based systems or social network services, but are usable to improve various types of applications, machines, devices, and systems.
[0056]
The disclosure will be understood more fully from the detailed description given below, which references the accompanying drawings. The detailed description of the drawings is for explanation and understanding, and should not be taken to limit the disclosure to the specific examples described.
[0057]
In some examples, components with the same name but different reference numbers in different figures have the same or similar functionality such that a description of one of those components with respect to one figure is applicable to other components with the same name in other drawings.
[0058]
Also, in the drawings and the following description, components shown and described in connection with some examples are capable of being used with or incorporated into other examples. In some examples, a component illustrated in a certain drawing is not limited to use in connection with the example to which the drawing pertains, but is usable with or incorporated into other examples, including examples shown in other drawings.
[0059]
FIG. 1 is a component-based flow diagram of an example method 100 for agent-based task execution using an action store in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0060]
The method 100 is performed by processing logic that includes hardware (e.g., processing device, circuitry, dedicated logic, programmable logic, microcode, hardware of a device, integrated circuit, etc.), software (e.g., instructions run or executed on a processing device), or a combination thereof. In some examples, the method 100 is performed by the computing system components shown in FIG. 1 , FIG. 3 , FIG. 4 , one or more components of computing system 900 of FIG. 9 , or agent system 1280 of FIG. 12 . Although shown in a particular sequence or order, unless otherwise specified, the order of the processes is modifiable. In some examples, the processes are performed in a different order, and/or some processes are performed in parallel. Additionally, one or more processes are omitted in some examples. Thus, not all processes are required in every example. Other process flows are possible.
[0061]
In FIG. 1 , the method 100 is represented by arrows connecting components of a computing system, including components of an environment 101, an agent front end 102, and an agent back end 103. In the example of FIG. 1 , the components of the agent front end 102 and/or agent back end 103 (collectively, agent system 102, 103) are implemented using one or more computing devices, such as an application server or server cluster. In some examples, the one or more computing devices include a secure environment (e.g., secure enclave, encryption system, etc.) for the processing of data. In other examples, one or more components of the agent system 102, 103 are implemented on a client device, such as a user system 1210, described herein with reference to FIG. 12 . In some examples, some or all of agent system 102, 103 is implemented directly on a user's device or within an embedded system, thereby avoiding the need to communicate with servers over a network such as the Internet.
[0062]
Referring to FIG. 9 , in some examples, portions of the agent front end 102 are included in the automated agent 902, while portions of the agent back end 103 are included in the distributed multi-agent system 905, such as communication service 908, adaptive learning service 910, multi-layer memory structure 911, AI services 914, data resources 916, and/or tools 918.
[0063]
The environment 101 includes one or more user devices 101A, a network 101B, and/or one or more sensing devices 101C. Examples of user devices 101A include computing devices, such as laptop computers, smart phones, mobile computing devices, smart appliances, wearable devices, game controls, vehicle controls, robotic devices, etc. Examples of networks 101B include wireless, optical, and/or wired communication networks. A non-exhaustive list of examples of sensing devices 101C includes motion sensors, load cells, force sensors, light sensors, temperature sensors, physiological sensors, energy sensors, and network sensors.
[0064]
The agent front end 102 is or includes an application layer, presentation layer, and/or data layer of an agent-based task-oriented computing system. The agent front end 102 manages and facilitates electronic or electromagnetic communications between the environment 101 and the agent back end 103. In some examples, responsive to receiving input via one or more components of the environment 101, the agent front end 102 provides portions of the input to task management component 110, policies/config data 106, and/or action store management component 114 and provides portions of output produced by task management component 110, policies/config data 106, and/or action store management component 114 to the environment 101. Such output includes digital data such as multimodal content and/or instructions such as control signals.
[0065]
In some examples, the output provided by the agent front end 102 to the environment 101 includes digital content for presentation via a graphical or multimodal user interface at one or more user devices 101A (e.g., search results, recommendations, access control instructions, user interface elements), control signals for processing by one or more components of the network 101B (e.g., network traffic routing instructions, load balancing instructions, network security instructions), or control signals for processing by one or more components of the sensing devices 101C (e.g., navigation instructions for a robotic device or vehicle, articulation or manipulation instructions for a component of a robotic device or vehicle, or operational instructions for a robotic device or vehicle, such as instructions to start, stop, or temporarily suspend the deployment of a component of the device or vehicle).
[0066]
The agent back end 103 provides functionality that receives inputs from the agent front end 102, executes tasks in response to inputs, and provides output to the agent front end 102. The agent back end 103 includes policies/config data 106, a task management component 110, an action store management component 114, and an action store 128.
[0067]
The policies/config data 106 includes one or more data stores (e.g., databases) that store data that is usable by agent front end 102, task management component 110, and/or action store component 114 to configure, control, or constrain the tasks performed by the agent system 102, 103. In some examples, the policies/config data 106 stores priority data that prioritizes certain memory layers of the action store 128 over others for querying by the task management component 110 in response to a given task, requesting entity, or execution context. Alternatively or in addition, the policies/config data 106 stores policies expressed as, for instance, logic, rules, or threshold conditions, which are usable by action store component 114 to determine whether and/or how to update the action store 128 in response to input from the environment and/or performance metrics associated with an execution of a task.
[0068]
The task management component 110 is communicatively coupled to agent front end 102, policies/config data 106, action store management component 114, and action store 128. Task management component 110 builds or configures agents to execute tasks in response to inputs from the environment 101 and monitors the agent-based task executions. Task management component 110 includes an agent builder component 116 and a task execution component 118.
[0069]
In response to a given set of one or more inputs from the environment 101, the agent builder component 116 configures the agent system 102, 103 to execute one or more tasks. The agent builder component 116 transforms inputs from the environment 101 to tasks, uses the action store 128 to map the tasks to actions stored in the action store 128, and outputs actions corresponding to the tasks for execution by the task execution component 118. In some examples, an action output by the agent builder component 116 is represented visually as an action graph. An action graph includes an action that corresponds to a task, one or more sub-actions, and dependencies or relationships between or among the action and sub-actions. An action graph also or alternatively is referred to as a workflow, in some examples. Functionality included in an example of the agent builder component 116 is described in more detail with reference to FIG. 3 .
[0070]
The task execution component 118 initiates and monitors the execution of tasks, which are expressed as actions output by the agent builder component 116, in accordance with policies/config data 105. The task execution component 118 receives signals, such as user feedback and/or values of performance metrics, during execution of an action and causes action store management component 114 to log those signals in the action store 128 for subsequent processing by action store management component 114.
[0071]
The action store management component 114 creates, maintains, and/or updates the action store 128 or actions stored therein, in response to tasks executions, feedback, performance data, and/or changes in policies/config data 106. In some examples, user feedback and/or performance data logged during an execution of an action initiates the creation of a new action or an update to the configuration of an action in action store 128 by the action store management component 114.
[0072]
The action store management component 114 includes an action store builder component 120 and a trajectory optimization component 122. The action store builder component 120 creates and updates actions in response to, for example, output of trajectory optimization component 122. In some examples, the action store builder component 120 adds a new action to the action store, modify the relationships between actions and sub-actions, or modify the assignments of actions to memory layers in response to output of trajectory optimization component 122.
[0073]
The trajectory optimization component 122 executes one or more trajectory optimization algorithms during or at the conclusion of a task execution to determine whether action store 128 should be updated based on the results of the task execution including any feedback or performance data associated with the task execution. A trajectory optimization algorithm is a type of optimization algorithm that is usable to design or re-design a trajectory to minimize or maximize the value of a performance metric while satisfying a set of constraints. As applied in some examples of action store management, the structure of an action (e.g., a visualization of the action as a graph) is analogous to a trajectory, the performance metric is specified by policies/config data 106, a current value of the performance metric is obtained or computed by task execution component 118 using, e.g., input and/or feedback from the environment 101 during a task execution, and the set of constraints includes dependencies between sub-actions.
[0074]
Output produced by trajectory optimization component includes, for instance, an instruction to create a new action in the action store, remove an action from the action store, or to modify the structure of an action. In some examples, an instruction produced by trajectory optimization component causes action store builder component 120 to combine multiple sub-actions into a single action, to divide an action into a group of sub-actions, or to create a different version of an action that is customized for a specific entity or usage context. The output of the trajectory optimization component 122 is provided to action store builder component 120. Functionality included in some examples of the agent builder component 116 is described in more detail with reference to FIG. 4 .
[0075]
The action store 128 includes one or more data stores (e.g., graph databases, vector stores). The action store 128 includes action data 130, memory layers 132, action-action mappings 134, action-memory layer mappings 136, and an embedding store 138. The action data 130 includes a data record that stores information for each action. An illustrative example of an action data record is described with reference to FIG. 2A.
[0076]
The memory layers 132 include definitions of logical and/or physical memory layers. The memory layers 132 are configured to facilitate low-latency access to task-relevant actions by task management component 110. Illustrative examples of memory layers 132 are described with reference to FIG. 5A-FIG. 5C and FIG. 11A-FIG. 11B.
[0077]
The action-action mappings 134 include relationships between or among actions and sub-actions, such as action-specific dependencies, which include one-to-one, one-to-many, and/or many-to-many relationships. In some examples, the same sub-action is used to perform multiple different actions and some actions include no sub-actions, a single sub-action or multiple different sub-actions. The action-action mappings 134 are expressed programmatically using graph edges or keys, in some examples. Illustrative examples of action-action mappings 134 are described with reference to FIG. 2B.
[0078]
The action-memory layer mappings 136 include relationships between or among actions and memory layers. Different memory layers are associated with different rules or thresholds regarding priority or accessibility to different entities or agents, in some examples. These rules or thresholds are specified in policies/config data 106, in some examples. Thus, the creation or modification of action-memory layer mappings 136 by action store management component 114 controls the priority or accessibility of different actions by different entities or agents, in some examples. The action-memory layer mappings 136 are expressed programmatically using, e.g., graph edges or keys, in some examples. Illustrative examples of action-memory layer mappings 136 are described with reference to FIG. 2C.
[0079]
The embedding store 138 stores embeddings. In some examples, embedding refers to a machine learning model-generated numerical representation of an input to the machine learning model. In some examples, an embedding encodes information, e.g., a set of features associated with an entity and/or attribute, relative to an embedding space, where the embedding space represents a set of training data with which the machine learning model has been trained. In some examples, an embedding is expressed programmatically as a vector, where each dimension of the vector includes a numerical value that is an integer or a real number (e.g., a floating-point number). The numerical value assigned to a given dimension of the vector conveys information about the data represented by the embedding, relative to the embedding space, also referred to as a vector space. The embedding space (or vector space) includes all of the possible values of each dimension of the vector. The embedding space is defined by the way in which the machine learning model used to generate the vector has been trained and configured, including the training data used to train the model.
[0080]
The embedding store 138 includes task embeddings and/or action embeddings. In some examples, when a new action is created, an embedding of the action description and/or action metadata is created and stored in embedding store 138. Similarly, when a new task is determined by task management component 110, an embedding of the task is created and stored in embedding store 138, in some examples. Task embeddings and action embeddings are created using the same embedding space, in some examples. For instance, task embeddings and action embeddings are both generated by the same GMLM, in some examples.
[0081]
The embedding store 138, including the task embeddings and action embeddings, facilitates the use of embedding-based retrieval to identify actions in the action store 128 that are capable of performing tasks requested by the environment 101. Embedding-based retrieval (EBR) is a method of searching for similar digital content. Embedding-based retrieval involves converting digital data, e.g., text, source code, multimodal content, sets of features, etc., to embeddings and then using a similarity algorithm, such as nearest-neighbor search or cosine similarity, to identify embeddings that are similar to one another. Terms such as similar, match or map as used herein refer to an exact match, in some examples, or an inexact match, in other examples. Examples of similar, match or map refer to a machine-determined predicted or estimated degree of similarity or compatibility between data items that satisfies (e.g., meets or exceeds) a threshold level of similarity or compatibility, where the threshold level of similarity or compatibility is variable based on the requirements of a particular design or implementation. The threshold level of similarity is capable of being set lower or higher for different types of similarity, matching or mapping.
[0082]
In operation, the agent front end 102 receives input from the environment 101. The agent front end 102 exchanges communications 104 with task management component 110 to determine and execute one or more tasks in response to the input.
[0083]
The task management component 110 exchanges communications 124 with action store 128 to identify actions to be included in the task execution. The task management component 110 is capable of exchanging communications 112 with action store management component 114 during or after task execution, such as feedback and/or performance metric updates to be added to action store 128 as a result of a task execution.
[0084]
The agent front end 102 is capable of exchanging communications 108 with action store management component 114 to initiate the creation or updating of the action store 128 in response to input from the environment 101. The communications 108 also or alternatively includes information from action store management component 114 to agent front end 102, such as communications of action store updates that the agent front end 102 is capable of presenting to the environment 101. In some examples, agent front end 102 updates a user interface to reflect new actions added to action store 128 or actions removed from action store 128, in response to communications 108.
[0085]
The action store management component 114 exchanges communications 126 with action store 128 to create, read, update, or remove records from action store 128 in response to input from the environment 101 and/or task executions. In some examples, communications 126 include instructions to create, modify or delete, or to modify access levels pertaining to, one or more of action data 130, memory layers 132, action-action mappings 134, action-memory layer mappings 136, or embedding store 138.
[0086]
The examples shown in FIG. 1 and the accompanying description are provided for illustration purposes. This disclosure is not limited to the described examples.
[0087]
FIG. 2A is a schematic diagram of an example of a data structure 200 for an action in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure. The data structure 200 provides a logical and/or physical organization of data relating to an action. In some examples, the data structure 200 is implemented as a data record stored in a database, such as a key-value store, a graph database, a vector database, or another type of database.
[0088]
Action refers to any type of action (function, skill, tool, task, etc.) that is capable of being performed (e.g., executed via one or more computing devices) by an agent, in some examples. A complete set of actions that a particular agent is capable of performing is referred to as that agent's action space, in some examples. Illustrative examples of actions include: execution of local code (e.g., built-in or plug-in Python function) (this type of action is referred to as a tool, in some examples); providing an instruction to a machine learning model, e.g., prompting a GMLM; executing a task (e.g., a group or series of related tasks); invocation of a remote service, such as an API or data management system (this type of action is referred to as a skill, in some examples); sending a request to another agent, group of agents, or human user. In some examples, actions are represented as GMLM-compatible function definitions (e.g., OPENAI or Pydantic JSON serialization). In some examples, an action is represented as a function that takes structured inputs and produces structured outputs, and includes a description of its purpose.
[0089]
A skill represents a category of actions including complex operations that typically require external interactions beyond the local context of the agent. Unlike tools, which are simple and localized functions executable within the agent's immediate processing environment, skills involve calling external services or APIs, interacting with other agents or human users, and/or managing or manipulating external data systems, in some examples. Skills are defined by clear intent, with well-defined inputs and outputs. Skills encompass a wide range of functionalities, from querying databases and invoking web services to complex problem-solving tasks that require the synthesis of information from multiple sources, in some examples. The definition and execution of skills includes the technical specifications, the operational context, and the logical flow of the agent's tasks.
[0090]
Tool refers to a category of actions characterized by simple, localized operations that an agent is capable of performing within its immediate execution context or environment, in some examples. Tools represent basic functions or routines that do not typically require external interaction or complex processing beyond the agent's current scope of work, in some examples. Illustrative examples of such functions include generating microprompts, executing internal or plugin functions, code generation for specific tasks (e.g., lambda functions), and basic data manipulation or computation.
[0091]
In the data structure 200, each unit or element of the data structure (e.g., a field, column, node, dimension) stores digital data related to a particular action. In the example of FIG. 2A, the data structure 200 includes an action identifier (ID) 202, action metadata 204, and one or more executable elements 206. The action ID 202 uniquely identifies an action as distinguished from other actions.
[0092]
The metadata 204 includes information that defines or describes the action associated with the action ID 202. For instance, the metadata 204 includes an owner identifier 208, a description 210, indexing 212, usage restrictions 214, and performance data 216. The owner identifier 208 identifies an entity that is associated with the action. In some examples, the owner ID is an entity that created the action, such as a user, another agent, or another type of entity.
[0093]
The description 210 includes digital content that describes the action. The description 210 includes, in some examples, natural language text and/or multimodal digital content such as digital images, video, and/or audio. Alternatively or in addition, the description 210 includes an embedding of such digital content and/or other components of the action data record, or an identifier of the action embedding, where the action embedding is stored in the embedding store.
[0094]
The indexing 212 includes an index of task embeddings with which the action is associated. For instance, the indexing 212 contains task embedding identifiers 218 for all of the tasks to which the action relates. The task embeddings themselves are stored in an embedding store (e.g., the embedding store 138 described with reference to FIG. 1 ), in some examples. The indexing 212 facilitates querying of the action store by the task management component during task execution to identify actions that are applicable to requested tasks, in some examples.
[0095]
The indexing 212 is initialized using domain knowledge and updated based on task executions, in some examples. The embedding store is pre-populated with task embeddings of tasks that are pre-defined based on domain knowledge, such as a taxonomy, in some examples. The pre-populated embedding store is capable of being used to initialize the indexing 212. In some examples, the indexing 212 is configured for embedding-based retrieval (EBR), retrieval-augmented generation (RAG), and/or other querying techniques.
[0096]
The usage restrictions 214 include information that is usable by the task management component to determine whether an action is permitted to be used by a certain agent or to perform a particular task. In some examples, the usage restrictions 214 include a flag that indicates whether the action includes one or more self-mutable capabilities that enable an agent to evaluate and modify its own configuration.
[0097]
The performance data 216 includes information related to the performance of the action during task executions, such as cost (e.g., in terms of resource allocation), execution time, accuracy, efficiency, user feedback, signals from the environment, relevance of output generated by the action to a requested task, precision, recall, etc.
[0098]
The executable elements 206 of an action include digital items that are executable by one or more computing devices, e.g., by task execution component 118, to complete the action in accordance with the description 210, in response to input from the environment 101. In some examples, executable elements 206 include code snippets, functions, plug-ins, API or RPC calls, GMLM instructions (e.g., prompts or microprompts), queries, inter-process communications, etc.).
[0099]
The examples shown in FIG. 2A and the accompanying description are provided for illustration purposes. This disclosure is not limited to the described examples.
[0100]
FIG. 2B is a schematic diagram of an example of action-action mappings in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure. The action-action mappings 220 are usable to define an action as a group or sequence of sub-actions. As such, the action-action mappings 220 enable the action store to create, maintain, and update actions of any degree of complexity from single-function to multi-function actions and even actions that involve multiple different agents. The action-action mappings 220 also facilitate agent configuration and task execution by the task management component to help conserve computing resources. In some examples, the task management component only needs to query the top level of the action hierarchy (e.g., the root nodes) to identify actions that are capable of performing requested tasks in their entirety. In some examples, the task management component uses an iterative, hierarchical querying method, or an optimized path query to selectively query subsequent levels of the action hierarchy only when the previously-queried levels do not contain any actions related to a requested task.
[0101]
The example of FIG. 2B includes N actions and N sub-actions, where, in each instance, N is a positive integer and N is capable of having a different value in different instances or contexts such that the number of actions does not need to be the same as the number of sub-actions. FIG. 2B shows illustrative actions 222, 224, illustrative sub-actions 226, 228, 230, 232, and action-action mappings 220. The actions, sub-actions, and action-action mappings are implemented using, e.g., graph database structures (e.g., nodes, edges, and paths) and/or key-value stores, in some examples.
[0102]
The action-action mappings 220 indicate hierarchical relationships between or among actions and sub-actions. FIG. 2B shows an action hierarchy with two levels; however, any action hierarchy is capable of including any number of levels. In some examples, a sub-action 226, 228, 230, 232 is itself mapped to one or more other sub-actions, and so on. Also or alternatively, any level of the hierarchy is capable of containing any number of actions or sub-actions. Any action is capable of having zero or more mappings with other actions or sub-actions. In some examples, an action is an action and is also sub-action of another action. In some examples, action 222 is a sub-action of action 224 for some tasks. The example of FIG. 2B shows action 1 222 having a mapping to each of the sub-actions 226, 228, 230, 232, and action 224 having a mapping with each of the sub-actions 226 and 232. In other examples, the number of action-action mappings 220 for a given action is different for other actions. In some examples, the number of action-action mappings 220 for a given action is updated over time, e.g., based on output of the trajectory optimization component described with reference to FIG. 1 .
[0103]
The examples shown in FIG. 2B and the accompanying description are provided for illustration purposes. This disclosure is not limited to the described examples.
[0104]
FIG. 2C is a schematic diagram of an example of action to memory layer mappings in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0105]
In some examples, memory layer refers to a logical and/or physical unit, location, or portion of memory that has a specific purpose. Conversational memory (referred to as working memory, in some examples) is capable of storing information collected as an agent interacts with users and other agents. In some examples, the conversational memory has different levels of access to messages that have been exchanged during an agent's session, such as raw dialog histories, summaries of messages, or EBR-based search of relevant messages given a query. Experiential memory (referred to as episodic, procedural, or long-term memory, in various examples) includes persistent storage that is structured and often indexed (e.g., for EBR) and provided with, e.g., CRUD operations (create, read, update, delete), query, and search operations to support, for example, the context for a task that an agent is currently working on, the learnings from the agent's execution of that task into an episode for trajectory optimization, the long-term factual data and models constructed by an agent over its lifetime, and/or the shared context for a group of agents collectively executing a task.
[0106]
The example of FIG. 2C illustrates a hierarchical and multi-layer structure of an action store. The structure includes actions, sub-actions, memory layers, action-action mappings, and action-memory layer mappings 240. Each of the N illustrative actions 242, 250, 256 includes a number of sub-actions and the corresponding action-action mappings between the action and associated sub-actions. For instance, action 242 is represented as a graph in which each of the sub-actions 244, 246, 248 are linked with the action 242. Action 250 is represented as a graph in which each of the sub-actions 252, 254 are linked with the action 250. Action 256 is represented as a graph in which each of the sub-actions 258, 260 are linked with the action 256.
[0107]
The multi-layer memory 262 includes N memory layers, including a first memory layer 264, a second memory layer 266, and an Nth memory layer 268. The memory layers 264, 266, 268 are arranged according to a hierarchy or priority. In some examples, the hierarchy or priority is defined in, e.g., policies/config data 106 described with reference to FIG. 1 . The hierarchy or priority data indicates a priority order for search functions, such that some memory layers are queried before other memory layers, in some examples. First memory layer 264 includes a short-term or working memory that is queried first during a task execution, and second memory layer 266 includes a long-term or experiential memory into which learnings from a task execution are stored, in some examples. Alternatively or in addition, the hierarchy or priority indicates threshold access levels by which access to the memory layers by different agents is controlled. In some examples, first memory layer 264 and second memory layer 266 are local memories that are only accessible to a specific, associated agent while the Nth memory layer 268 is a collective memory that is accessible to multiple different agents.
[0108]
The example of FIG. 2C shows that different components of an action are mappable to different memory layers. In some examples, component-level mapping is done for efficiency and/or conservation of memory resources, e.g., so that the same action or sub-action is not stored in multiple memory layers. In some examples, action 242 and sub-action 244 are mapped to first memory layer 264 while sub-action 246 and sub-action 248 are mapped to second memory layer 266. In some examples, an initial execution of a task includes action 242 and sub-action 244, and based on feedback from the initial execution, sub-action 246 and sub-action 248 are added to action 242 (e.g., as a specific user preference as to how the agent is to perform action 242).
[0109]
In another example, action 250 is mapped to the Nth memory layer 268 while sub-action 252 and sub-action 254 are mapped to the second memory layer 266. In some examples, a first execution of a task includes only action 250 (e.g., obtained from a collective memory) and based on feedback and/or performance signals from the particular environment in which the first execution took place, learnings from the first execution include adding sub-action 252 and sub-action 254 to action 250 and adding mappings between each of the sub-actions 252, 254 and the second memory layer 266.
[0110]
In other examples, action 256 is mapped to second memory layer 266 while each of sub-actions 258, 260 are mapped to the Nth memory layer. In some examples, an agent learns from a first execution that a task is capable of being effectively performed by action 256 using sub-actions 258, 260 obtained from a global or ‘corporate’ memory layer 268. In some examples, the task is ambiguous on the first execution but as a result of performance metrics associated with the first execution the agent determines that the task is performed effectively using the action 256 including the sub-actions 258, 260, where the sub-actions 258, 260 are accessible to the agent not via a local memory layer but via a shared or remote memory layer that is accessible to multiple different agents or entities. Examples of how actions, memory layers, and mappings of the action store are updated based on task executions are described with reference to FIG. 5A, FIG. 5B, and FIG. 5C. Additional examples of memory layers and action stores (e.g., data registries) are described with reference to FIG. 10 , FIG. 11A, and FIG. 11B.
[0111]
The examples shown in FIG. 2C and the accompanying description are provided for illustration purposes. This disclosure is not limited to the described examples.
[0112]
FIG. 3 is a component-based flow diagram of an example method for agent-based task execution in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0113]
The method 300 is performed by processing logic that includes hardware (e.g., processing device, circuitry, dedicated logic, programmable logic, microcode, hardware of a device, integrated circuit, etc.), software (e.g., instructions run or executed on a processing device), or a combination thereof. In some examples, the method 300 is performed by the computing system components shown in FIG. 1 , FIG. 3 , FIG. 4 , one or more components of computing system 900 of FIG. 9 , or agent system 1280 of FIG. 12 . Although shown in a particular sequence or order, unless otherwise specified, the order of the processes is modifiable. In some examples, the processes are performed in a different order, and/or some processes are performed in parallel. Additionally, one or more processes are omitted in some examples. Thus, not all processes are required in every example. Other process flows are possible.
[0114]
In the example of FIG. 3 , an agent builder component 310 configures an agent to perform a task by using an action store 304 and one or more machine learning models 316 to identify one or more actions that are capable of completing the requested task. In some examples, the one or more identified actions include a single action that completely performs the task or an action graph that contains multiple actions each of which performs a different portion of the task. The action builder component 310 and/or the machine learning model 316 provides the task-aligned actions, or at least the executable elements of such actions, to task execution component 336 for execution.
[0115]
In operation, some examples of agent builder component 310 perform operations 312, 320, 324 iteratively, as indicated by loop 344, until a one-to-one mapping of tasks to actions is determined. In some examples, agent builder component 310 receives input 306 and context 308 from, e.g., agent front end 102 or directly from an environment (e.g., environment 101).
[0116]
Illustrative examples of the input 306 include selections from a user interface, communications from a network, and/or signals from one or more sensing devices. Illustrative examples of the context 308 include metadata associated with the input 306, such as session information, user account information, entity profile data, interaction history data. Illustrative examples of other inputs to agent builder component 310 include policies/config data 302 and action store 304, described with reference to FIG. 1 and FIG. 2A-FIG. 2C. Machine learning model 316 includes one or more machine learning models, such as GMLMs. In some examples, the same machine learning model is used in the performance of all of operations 312, 320, 324 while in other examples, different machine learning models are used to perform different operations 312, 320, 324. Examples of machine learning models that are usable to perform portions of operations 312, 320, 314 are described with reference to FIG. 13A-FIG. 13E.
[0117]
At determine/clarify tasks operation 312, the agent builder component 310 provides a task determination instruction 314 to machine learning model 316 to cause the machine learning model 316 to convert the input 306, and context 308, if available, to one or more tasks 318. In some examples in which the machine learning model 316 is a GMLM, the task determination instruction 314 is configured to provide the input 306 and context 308 to the machine learning model 316 as model inputs along with an instruction that instructs the machine learning model 316 to classify the model inputs, into one of a plurality of classes where each class is a task, using the GMLM's training data alone or in combination with structured data such as task embeddings, a task vocabulary or taxonomy.
[0118]
In other examples, the machine learning model 316 is a binary or multi-class classifier implemented using, e.g., a logistic regression model, and the task determination instruction 314 provides the input 306 and context 308 to the machine learning model 316 as a feature set or embedding (in other words, the determine/clarify task(s) operation 312 converts the input 306 and context 308 to a feature set or embedding to be used as model input and then provides the model input to the machine learning model 316).
[0119]
The determine/clarify task(s) operation 312 is capable of executing iteratively. In some examples, if the initial input 306 and/or context 308 is ambiguous or lacking information needed to fill one or more parameters of the task determination instruction 314, the determine/clarify task(s) operation 312 requests additional input 306 and/or context 308 from, e.g., agent front end 102, until the one or more parameters of the task determination instruction 314 are filled.
[0120]
In response to one or more iterations of task determination instruction 314, machine learning model 316 determines and outputs one or more task(s) 318. Illustrative examples use an embedding-based retrieval technique to identify task(s) that correspond to different combinations of input 306 and/or context 308. In some examples, task embeddings are pre-generated and stored in an embedding store (e.g., embedding store 138) using, for example, domain knowledge, dialog histories, and/or structured data such as a taxonomy, so that when a combination of input 306 and/or context 308 is received by agent builder component 310, such combination is converted to an embedding using the same embedding space as used to create the task embeddings, and matched to task embeddings in the embedding store.
[0121]
The task(s) 318 determined by machine learning model 316 are used to identify corresponding actions in the action store 304. In some examples, the filter/rank actions from action store operation 320 uses the task(s) 318 or the corresponding task embeddings to search the action store 304 for actions whose associated action embeddings match the task embeddings. If no actions in the action store are found that correspond to the task(s) 318, the filter/rank actions from action store operation 320 sends a communication to action store management component 340 to initiate the creation of a new action in the action store, in some examples.
[0122]
In response to task(s) 318, the filter/rank actions from action store operation 320 provides an action store subset 322 to machine learning model 316. The action store subset 322 includes a filtered portion of the action store 304; e.g., only those actions that correspond to the task(s) 318. Filtering the actions enables the machine learning model 316 to identify actions more efficiently and with reduced risk of AI hallucination, in some examples. Alternatively or in addition, the operation 320 uses policies/config data 302 to filter the action store 304, so that the action store subset 322 includes only those actions that the particular agent is permitted to execute and/or only those actions that satisfy one or more performance criteria. However, in some examples, the action store subset 322 includes the entire action store 304 instead of a filtered subset that contains less than all of the actions in the action store 304.
[0123]
The identify corresponding action(s) operation 324 provides an action determination instruction 326 to machine learning model 316. The action determination instruction 326 is configured to cause the machine learning model 316 to use the action store subset 322 and the tasks(s) 318 to identify one or more action(s) that correspond to the task(s) 318. In some examples, the action determination instruction 326 includes an instruction to cause the machine learning model 316 to generate a set of requirements for performing one or more of the task(s) 318 and then identify one or more action(s) from the action store subset 322 that is capable of satisfying each of the requirements generated by the machine learning model 316.
[0124]
In some examples, the action determination instruction 326 includes an instruction to cause the machine learning model 316 to determine, for a given task 318, whether there exists, in the action store subset 322, one or more single actions that completely perform that task 318. In some examples, the action determination instruction 326 includes a first instruction to cause the machine learning model 316 to generate a set (e.g., one or more) of actions 328, each of which is capable of completely performing the task 318, a second instruction to cause the machine learning model 316 to rank the actions in the set of actions 328 according to one or more ranking criteria to produce ranked actions 330, and a third instruction to cause the machine learning model 316 to select the top k actions from the set of ranked actions to produce selected action(s) 332, where k is a positive integer whose value is configurable based on the requirements or design of a particular implementation. In any case where multiple instructions are described, any of the multiple instructions are capable of being combined into fewer instructions or divided into a greater number of instructions to achieve greater efficiency, lower latency, reduce AI hallucination, or improve some other performance metric.
[0125]
If, in response to an action determination instruction 326 that instructs the machine learning model 316 to determine whether there is a single action in the action store 304 that is capable of completely performing a task 318, the machine learning model 316 determines that no such action exists in the action store 304, the loop 344 returns to determine/clarify task(s) operation 312 for further clarification of the task 318, in some examples. In these examples, the task determination instruction 314 instructs the machine learning model 316 to perform a task decomposition process which divides the task 318 into a set (e.g., one or more) of sub-tasks, and then to perform the identify corresponding action(s) operation 324 for each sub-task. A task decomposition process is capable of being performed iteratively via loop 344 until there is a one-to-one correspondence between tasks (or sub-tasks, as the case may be) and actions contained in the action store 304.
[0126]
The machine learning model 316 or the agent builder component 310 outputs the selected action(s) 332 corresponding to the task(s) 318, or at least the executable element(s) 334 of the selected action(s), to task execution component 336 for an execution of the task(s) 318. The executable elements 334 are capable of being extracted from the corresponding action data records in the action store 304 by machine learning model 316 or task execution component 336. In some examples, the output of machine learning model 316 includes one or more action subgraphs, where nodes or elements of the subgraphs contain or reference corresponding executable elements.
[0127]
The task execution component 336 performs an execution of the actions determined by machine learning model 316 to correspond to the task(s) 318, e.g., in accordance with the respective action subgraphs and applicable policies/config data 302. During the execution, the task execution component 336 receives one or more signals 338 pertaining to one or more of the actions or its execution. In some examples, the signal(s) 338 include feedback from the environment 101, performance data associated with the execution or one or more actions involved in the execution, and/or communications from one or more other agents. In some examples, an evaluation agent of a multi-agent system evaluates instances of machine learning model output for compliance with one or more evaluation criteria (e.g., spam, inappropriate content, AI hallucination, etc.) and provides signals to the task execution component 336.
[0128]
The task execution component is capable of communicating one or more of such signals 338 to action store management component 340. In response to signal(s) 338, action store management component 340 communicates one or more action store updates 342 to action store 304. In some examples, action store update(s) 342 include feedback and/or performance data for a particular action, which is logged in the data record for that action in the action store 304. As a result, the next time the action store 304 is queried, e.g., on a subsequent execution of a task 318, the feedback and/or performance data from the earlier execution is available to the agent builder component 310.
[0129]
The examples shown in FIG. 3 and the accompanying description are provided for illustration purposes. This disclosure is not limited to the described examples.
[0130]
FIG. 4 is a component-based flow diagram of an example method 400 for action store management in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0131]
The method 400 is performed by processing logic that includes hardware (e.g., processing device, circuitry, dedicated logic, programmable logic, microcode, hardware of a device, integrated circuit, etc.), software (e.g., instructions run or executed on a processing device), or a combination thereof. In some examples, the method 400 is performed by the computing system components shown in FIG. 1 , FIG. 3 , FIG. 4 , one or more components of computing system 900 of FIG. 9 , or agent system 1280 of FIG. 12 . Although shown in a particular sequence or order, unless otherwise specified, the order of the processes is modifiable. In some examples, the processes are performed in a different order, and some processes are performed in parallel. Additionally, one or more processes are omitted in some examples. Thus, not all processes are required in every example. Other process flows are possible.
[0132]
The example of FIG. 4 illustrates processes for maintaining and updating an action store. From time to time during execution of an agent system (e.g., as described with reference to FIG. 1 , FIG. 9 , FIG. 10 , FIG. 12 ) an agent builder component 420 receives input 404 and/or context 406 via one or more agent front ends 402. The agent builder component 420 converts input 404 and/or context 406 to tasks 410, determines actions 418 in the action store 416 that correspond to the tasks 410, and provides executable elements 422 associated with the actions 418 to task execution component 424, for instance as described with reference to FIG. 3 .
[0133]
If the agent builder component 420 identifies a new task, e.g., a task 410 that does not have a corresponding action in the action store 416, agent builder component 420 provides the task 410 to action store builder component 412, in some examples. In response to such a task 410, the action store builder component 412 initiates one or more action store updates 414 and provide such updates 414 to action store 416. In some examples, agent front end 402 provides an interactive chat-style onboarding procedure through which a user defines or configures a new task. In response to such an onboarding procedure, action store builder component 412 initializes or updates the action store 416 or at least a portion of the action store 416 with action store updates 414 obtained via the onboarding procedure or otherwise associated with that particular user.
[0134]
One or more action store updates 430 is initiated via one or more task executions, in some examples. Task execution component 424 is capable of providing feedback and/or performance metrics 426 to a trajectory optimization component 428. Trajectory optimization component 428 applies one or more trajectory optimization techniques to one or more actions based on feedback/metrics 426. In some examples, trajectory optimization component 428 converts the output of the one or more trajectory optimization techniques to one or more action store updates 430, and provides such updates 430 to action store 416.
[0135]
In response to feedback and/or metrics 426 for a particular action represented by an action graph, trajectory optimization component 428 generates a set (e.g., one or more) of alternative action graphs and then apply an optimization algorithm to current action graph and each of the alternative action graphs, where the optimization algorithm seeks to optimize the value of one or more optimization parameters (e.g., to minimize the value output by a cost function). Via the optimization algorithm, the trajectory optimization component 428 obtains a score (such as an estimated cost) for each of the current action graph and alternative action graphs. The trajectory optimization component 428 uses these scores to rank the current action graph and alternative action graphs, for instance so that the lowest-cost action graph is ranked the highest and the highest-cost action graph is ranked the lowest. If the lowest-cost action graph is one of the alternative action graphs and not the current action graph, the trajectory optimization component 428 provides the alternative action graph with the lowest cost to the action store 416 as an action store update 430 (e.g., to replace the current action graph, or to be stored in a different memory layer, such as an experiential memory layer, for use on a subsequent task execution).
[0136]
In some examples, updates to policies/config data 408 trigger one or more action store updates 414 or action store updates 430. If configuration data in the policies/config data 408 is updated, e.g., to change the access level or priority of memory layers for query purposes, such configuration updates are propagated to the action store 416 via one or more action store updates 414, 430, in some examples. Alternatively or in addition, if policy data in the policies/config data 408 is updated, e.g., to change a self-mutability flag associated with a mutability characteristic of a particular action, such policy updates are propagated to the action store 416 via one or more action store updates 414, 430.
[0137]
The examples shown in FIG. 4 and the accompanying description are provided for illustration purposes. This disclosure is not limited to the described examples.
[0138]
FIG. 5A, FIG. 5B, and FIG. 5C are schematic diagrams of examples of learned action store updates in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure. In each of FIG. 5A, FIG. 5B, and FIG. 5C, each of the memory layers is associated with a priority (e.g., P1, P2, P3, P4) and an access level (e.g., A1, A2). In some examples, the priority indicates the order in which the memory layers are to be queried (e.g., P1 is higher priority than P2, causing P1 to be searched before P2, and so on). In some examples, the access level restricts access to one or more of the memory layers only to certain agents (e.g., A1 indicates that only a certain user-specific agent is permitted to access the associated memory layer(s) while other agents are excluded from accessing those memory layers; A2 indicates that more than one agent is permitted to access the associated memory layer(s) such that more than one agent is permitted to access those layers.
[0139]
In each of FIG. 5A, FIG. 5B, and FIG. 5C, four memory layers and two executions are shown for illustration purposes only. Any action store is capable of having any number of memory layers less than, greater than, or equal to four (and greater than or equal to one). Here, and throughout the disclosure, the labels “first” and “second” are for purposes of differentiation, only; e.g., a first execution need not be the very first execution in a sequence or series of executions and the second execution need not immediately follow the first execution but merely be subsequent to or different from the first execution.
[0140]
In each of FIG. 5A, FIG. 5B, and FIG. 5C, each action is represented by an action graph that includes multiple sub-actions, for illustration purposes only. Any action is capable of including only a single action or any number of sub-actions, depending on the requested task.
[0141]
FIG. 5A shows an example of an action store update that includes an update to a second memory layer 504 responsive to one or more signals (e.g., feedback, such as automated observations by a device, computing system, or model, such as performance metrics, and/or user feedback). In FIG. 5A, on a first execution 510 of a task, a fourth memory layer 508 is populated with an action 516 related to a requested task, a third memory layer is populated with an action 514 related to the requested task, and a second memory layer 504 is not populated with an action that is related to the requested task. In some examples, the action 516 is a global definition of a task-related action, and the action 514 is a corporate or group-based definition of the same task-related action (e.g., a company or team within the company has a different way of performing the task than the broader, global population). The action 514 includes sub-action 2 and sub-action 3 while the action 516 contains the same sub-action 2 but a different sub-action 4.
[0142]
In some examples where the access level A1 is associated with both the first memory layer 502 and the third memory layer 506, the first execution 510 is initialized with a version of action 1 that is action 514; thus, action 514 is initially loaded into the first memory layer 502 (e.g., working memory). During the first execution 501, feedback is received, indicating to include sub-action 1 in the action 1. Thus, during the first execution 510, sub-action 1 is added to the action 512. The feedback is received in an automated manner from observations of outcome of the first execution 501. In various examples the feedback is referred to as a signal. In various examples, the signal (also referred to as feedback) is received from an at least semi-autonomous agent via a device. For example, the semi-autonomous agent is in the environment 101 and is a person operating a computer where “device” refers to a computer. In another example, the feedback is from a fully autonomous physical agent in the environment 101 such as a physical robot or self-driving vehicle. In another example, the feedback is from a fully autonomous digital agent in the environment. In another example, the feedback is from sensors in the environment and is sensed observations of the outcome of one or more actions performed by an agent. In some examples, fully autonomous means having the ability to operate independently without human intervention. A fully autonomous system is capable of making decisions and executing actions based on its programming or training and the data it collects, in some examples.
[0143]
After the first execution 510, an action store management process stores the updated version of action 1, e.g., action 512, in the second memory layer 504 (e.g., experiential memory), as action 520. As a result, the updated version of action 1, action 520, is available to initialize the second execution 518. On the second execution 518, the first memory layer 502 is clear, such that the next memory layer in priority order (P2, second memory layer 504) is queried to obtain the updated version of action 1, action 520). No changes are made to the third memory layer 506 (e.g., action 522 is the same as action 514) or fourth memory layer 508 (e.g., action 524 is the same as action 516), in accordance with, e.g., policies/config data 106.
[0144]
FIG. 5B is a schematic diagram of an example of learned action store updates in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0145]
The example of FIG. 5B is similar to the example of FIG. 5A, in that different versions of an action 1 are stored in different memory layers having different search priorities and access levels. However, in FIG. 5B, the first memory layer 532 is initialized with action 542 as a result of a query of the second memory layer 534 retrieving action 544. For instance, as a result of a previous learning that the structure shown in the action 544 is successful for performing action 1, the first memory layer 532 is populated with that same structure for the action one on the first execution 540.
[0146]
Also, on the second execution 550, the action graph for the action 1 is updated in the second memory layer 534 such that the version of action 1, action 552, in the second memory layer 534 on the second execution 550 is different from the version of action 1, action 544, in the second memory layer 534 on the first execution 540. In some examples, the trajectory optimization process determines that sub-action 2 and sub-action 3 are combinable into a more efficient or less computationally costly sub-action 5, and as a result, updates the second memory layer 534 to store this learning at or prior to the second execution 550.
[0147]
Fourth memory layer 538 includes action 548 on first execution 540 and action 556 on second execution 550, where the action graph is the same for both action 548 and action 556. Third memory layer 536 includes action 546 on first execution 540 and action 554 on second execution 550, where the action graph is the same for both action 546 and action 554.
[0148]
FIG. 5C is a schematic diagram of an example of learned action store updates in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0149]
The example of FIG. 5C is similar to the examples of FIG. 5A and FIG. 5B, in that different versions of an action 1 are stored in different memory layers having different search priorities and access levels. However, in FIG. 5C, after trajectory optimization has updated the second memory layer at or prior to a second execution 590, it is determined (e.g., via policies/config data 106) that the learnings at the second memory layer 574 should be propagated to the third memory layer 576 and the fourth memory layer 578. As such, the third memory layer 576 contains a first version of action 1, action 586, on first execution 580, and a second version of action 1, action 594, on second execution 590, where the action 594 has replaced sub-action 3 with sub-action 5. In the fourth memory layer 578, a first version of action 1, action 588, is stored on first execution 580, and a second version of action 1, action 596, is stored on second execution 590, where the second version of action 1, action 596, has added sub-action 5 to the previous version of action 1, action 588.
[0150]
On first execution 580, first memory layer 572 and second memory layer 574 contain similar versions of action 1, e.g., action 582 and action 584 have the same action graph. On second execution, the second memory layer 574 is updated, e.g., as the result of feedback, performance data, and/or trajectory optimization, such that action 592 includes only sub-actions 1 and 5 while the prior version of action 1, action 584, contained sub-actions 1, 2, and 3.
[0151]
The examples shown in FIG. 5A, FIG. 5B, and FIG. 5C and the accompanying descriptions are provided for illustration purposes. This disclosure is not limited to the described examples.
[0152]
FIG. 6 is a component-based flow diagram of an example method 600 for configuring and/or operating a multi-agent system in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0153]
The method 600 is performed by processing logic that includes hardware (e.g., processing device, circuitry, dedicated logic, programmable logic, microcode, hardware of a device, integrated circuit, etc.), software (e.g., instructions run or executed on a processing device), or a combination thereof. In some examples, the method 600 is performed by the computing system components shown in FIG. 1 , FIG. 3 , FIG. 4 , one or more components of computing system 900 of FIG. 9 , or agent system 1280 of FIG. 12 . Although shown in a particular sequence or order, unless otherwise specified, the order of the processes is modifiable. In some examples, the processes are performed in a different order, and/or some processes are performed in parallel. Additionally, one or more processes are omitted in some examples. Thus, not all processes are required in every example. Other process flows are possible.
[0154]
In FIG. 6 , a multi-agent system interacts with one or more components of an environment 601 via an agent library front end 602. The agent library front end 602 interacts with one or more agents via an agent selection component 606 and one or more agent front ends 608, 610, 612, 614. In the example of FIG. 6 , each agent front end has an associated profile 608 a, 610 a, 612 a, 614 a (e.g., a profile associated with a type of entity).
[0155]
Each or any of the agent front ends 608, 610, 612, 614 is capable of being implemented in a similar manner as agent front end 102. Agent back end 616 is capable of being implemented in similar manner as agent back end 103. As such, each or any of the agent front ends 608, 610, 612, 614 is capable of interacting with task management component 618, action store 620, and/or action store management component 622 of agent back end 616 in a similar manner as described with reference to FIG. 1 , FIG. 3 , and/or FIG. 4 .
[0156]
In operation, agent library front end 602 is capable of receiving one or more inputs and/or context from one or more user devices 601A, networks 601B, and/or sensing devices 601C of environment 101. In response to such inputs and/or context, agent library front end 602 determines a project or task and provides the project/task 604 to agent selection component 606.
[0157]
Agent selection component 606 selects from among the available agents (e.g., via agent front ends 608, 610, 612, 614, one or more agents capable of performing the project or task. The agent selection component 606 employs any suitable search technique, such as facet-based searching of the entity profiles pages, embedding-based retrieval (EBR), retrieval-augmented generation (RAG), or other suitable method, to identify prospective agents for performing the project/task 604 and provide the prospective agent(s) to agent library front end 602.
[0158]
In response to a presentation of the prospective agents, the environment 101 generates a signal indicating a selection of one of the agents to perform the project/task 604. In some examples, a user device in the environment 101 receives user input selecting one of the agents. In other examples, a physical robot, or digital robot, or other automated entity in the environment 101 selects one of the agents using rules or other criteria, in a fully automated manner. In response to such a selection, the selected agent initiates the performance of the project/task 604 via the agent front end corresponding to the selected agent and the agent back end 616. In some examples, the agent building, task execution, and action store management processes described with reference to, e.g., FIG. 1 , FIG. 3 , and/or FIG. 4 is initiated in response to a selection of an agent via agent library front end 602. Once an agent is selected, the environment 601 interacts directly with the applicable agent front end associated with the selected agent. In some examples, an entity in the environment 601 such as a physical robot or a user device interacts directly with the applicable agent front end. Action store 620 is updated in response to feedback, performance data, and/or other signals received via any of the agent front ends 608, 610, 612, 614, the agent selection component 606, the agent library front end 602, and/or the environment 601, in some examples.
[0159]
In FIG. 6 , four agent front ends are shown for illustration purposes only. The multi-agent system is capable of including any number of agent front ends, and the number of agent front ends is not limited to four. Similarly, in FIG. 6 and other figures, the environment is capable of including any number of user devices, networks, sensing devices, and/or other electronic components.
[0160]
The examples shown in FIG. 6 and the accompanying description are provided for illustration purposes. This disclosure is not limited to the described examples.
[0161]
FIG. 7A, FIG. 7B, FIG. 7C, FIG. 7D illustrate examples of processes for agent configuration, including example depictions of graphical user interface elements, in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure. The user interfaces shown in FIG. 7A, FIG. 7B, FIG. 7C, FIG. 7D are presented by an agent system, in some examples. The user interface of FIG. 7A is presented via an agent library front end 602 and any one or more of the user interfaces of FIG. 7B, FIG. 7C, FIG. 7D is presented via an agent front end such as any of agent front ends 102, 608, 610, 612, 614, in some examples.
[0162]
In the user interface examples shown in FIG. 7A, FIG. 7B, FIG. 7C, FIG. 7D, certain data that would normally be displayed via the user interface is anonymized for the purpose of this disclosure. In a live example, the actual data and not the anonymized version of the data would be displayed. For instance, the text “CompanyName” would be replaced with a name of an actual company and “FirstName LastName” would be replaced with a user's actual name.
[0163]
The user interface elements shown in FIG. 7A, FIG. 7B, FIG. 7C, FIG. 7D are presented to a user by an application system, such as automated agent 902. In some examples, portions of the user interface elements are implemented as one or more web pages that are stored, e.g., at a user device, a server or in a cache of a user device, and then loaded into a display of a user device via the user device sending a page load request to the server or fetching data from the cache.
[0164]
The graphical user interface control elements (e.g., fields, boxes, buttons, etc.) shown in the screen captures are implemented via software used to construct the user interface screens. While the screen captures illustrate examples of user interface components, e.g., visual displays, buttons, input boxes, etc., this disclosure is not limited to the illustrated examples, or to visual displays, or to graphical user interfaces.
[0165]
In FIG. 7A, a user interface 700 illustrates an example of a display screen that is capable of being presented to a user via, e.g., agent library front end 602. The user interface 700 includes a search input box 702. A user has provided input 704 into the search input box 702, indicating a need for assistance with website creation. In response to the input 704, the user interface 700 presents an agent list 706 including service providers. In some examples, agent list 706 is generated by agent selection component 606 described with reference to FIG. 6 . Each agent/service provider in the list includes one or more skills related to the search criteria of website creation. For instance, agent profile 708 indicates that the associated agent/service has agent skills 710 including web design, design strategy, and UX design, and further includes an agent description 714 indicating that the agent/service provider is supplemented with AI-based task execution capabilities. The agent profile 708 also includes a chat element 712 by which the user who entered the input 704 is capable of interacting directly with the agent/service provider.
[0166]
In FIG. 7B, a user interface 720 illustrates an example of a display screen that is capable of being presented to a service provider selected from, e.g., the agent list 706 of FIG. 7A. The user interface 720 includes a project description 722, a task list 724, a dialog 726 including dialog element 728 generated by an AI-based agent using task execution techniques described herein, dialog element 730 input by the selected service provider, and dialog element 732 generated by the AI-based agent in response to the input at dialog element 730. The task list 724 and/or dialog 726 is executable as part of, e.g., a task determination/clarification process such as described with reference to FIG. 3 .
[0167]
In response to the dialog 726, the user interface 720 displays a list of available action-specific agents 734 that map to tasks in the task list 724. The list of available action-specific agents is capable of being generated via an action determination process such as described with reference to FIG. 3 . Each action specific agent includes an agent description 736 and an agent selection element 738. In some examples, the agent selection element 738 is capable of being implemented as a toggle element by which the service provider selects or unselects a particular action-specific agent for use in connection with the project description 722 and task list 724.
[0168]
The user interface 720 further provides a chat input box 740 by which the AI-backed service provider is capable of engaging in a dialog with one or more AI-based agents. In some examples, the service provider provides feedback via chat input box 740 and the feedback is used to generate action store updates, e.g., as described with reference to FIG. 4 .
[0169]
In FIG. 7C, a user interface 750 illustrates another example of a display screen that is capable of being presented to a service provider selected from, e.g., the agent list 706 of FIG. 7A. The user interface 750 includes an agent management function 752, an agent sort function 754, and selectable view criteria 756. In response to a selection by the service provider of the view criteria 756 and sort function 754, the user interface 750 displays an agent list 758 of action-specific agents. The agent list 758 includes a history of action-specific agents that the service provider has used. Each agent in the agent list 758 includes an agent description 760 and an agent selection element 762. Whereas the user interface 720 provides the service provider with the ability to toggle action-specific agents on and off for a particular project or task, the user interface 750 enables the service provider to enable or disable action-specific agents across multiple tasks or projects. The user interface 750 also provides a chat input box 764 by which the AI-backed service provider is capable of engaging in a dialog with one or more AI-based agents. In some examples, the service provider provides feedback via chat input box 740 that is used to generate action store updates, e.g., as described with reference to FIG. 4 .
[0170]
In FIG. 7D, a user interface 770 illustrates another example of a display screen that is capable of being presented to a service provider selected from, e.g., the agent list 706 of FIG. 7A. The user interface 770 includes a project management function 772, a project sort function 774, and view criteria 776. In response to the project management function 772 and the view criteria 776, the user interface 770 displays a project list 778 of projects that are active for the service provider via the agent system. The project list 778 includes a number of projects such as project 780. Each project, e.g., project 780, includes a project title, e.g., project title 782, and a project status, e.g., project status 784. The user interface 770 also provides a chat input box 786 by which the AI-backed service provider engages in a dialog with one or more AI-based agents, in some examples. The service provider provides feedback via chat input box 786, and the feedback is used to generate action store updates, e.g., as described with reference to FIG. 4 , in some examples.
[0171]
The examples shown in FIG. 7A, FIG. 7B, FIG. 7C, FIG. 7D and the accompanying description are provided for illustration purposes. The illustrative examples are applicable to a smaller form factor such as smart phones, tablet computers, or wearable devices, and/or the user interfaces are adaptable to other forms of electronic devices, such as desktop computers and/or laptop devices, or vice versa. This disclosure is not limited to the described examples.
[0172]
FIG. 8A is a schematic diagram of an apparatus for action store management in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0173]
The apparatus 800 includes processing logic that includes hardware (e.g., processing device, circuitry, dedicated logic, programmable logic, microcode, hardware of a device, integrated circuit, etc.), software (e.g., instructions run or executed on a processing device), or a combination thereof. In some examples, the apparatus 800 includes computing system components shown in FIG. 1, FIG. 3 , FIG. 4 , one or more components of computing system 900 of FIG. 9 , or agent system 1280 of FIG. 12 .
[0174]
The apparatus 800 includes a processor 802, first memory 804 operably coupled to the processor 802, and second memory 810 operably coupled to the processor 802. Illustrative examples of processor 802 are described with reference to FIG. 14 . Illustrative examples of memory 804, 810 are described with reference to FIG. 11A, FIG. 11B, and FIG. 14 .
[0175]
The first memory 804 includes an action store 806. Illustrative examples of action store 806 are described with reference to FIG. 1 , FIG. 3 , FIG. 4 , and FIG. 6 . The action store 806 includes a hierarchical arrangement of memory layers and a plurality of actions stored in one or more of the memory layers. The action store stores first mappings among actions and second mappings among actions and memory layers. The first mappings among actions are hierarchical and an action is executable by an agent. Illustrative examples of hierarchical arrangements of memory layers, actions, and mappings are described with reference to FIG. 1 , FIG. 2A, FIG. 2B, FIG. 2C, FIG. 5A, FIG. 5B, and FIG. 5C.
[0176]
The second memory includes an instruction 812. Illustrative examples of instructions 812 are described with reference to FIG. 14 . The instruction 812 is to cause the processor 802 to create or update the first mappings, the second mappings, or the first mappings and the second mappings, in response to a signal received from the agent via a device. The signal indicates input including a task, feedback relating to an execution of one of the actions by the agent, and/or performance data associated with the action. Illustrative examples of updates based on signals, tasks, and actions are described with reference to FIG. 3 and FIG. 4 .
[0177]
In some examples, the action includes metadata and the metadata includes an indication of a security level associated with action, or a performance metric associated with the action, or the indication of the security level and the performance metric; and the instruction is to control access to the action according to the indication of the security level and a rule, or the performance metric and the rule; or the security level, the performance metric, and the rule.
[0178]
In some examples, the first memory 804 is indexed by computing an embedding of the action and mapping the embedding to the action stored in the action store. In some examples, the memory layers include a first layer storing a first action and a second layer storing a second action, where a first security policy is associated with the first layer, a second security policy, different from the first security policy, is associated with the second layer, and where the instruction is to cause the processor to control access to the first layer according to the first security policy and control access to the second layer according to the second security policy.
[0179]
In some examples, the instruction 812 is to cause the processor 802 to move the first action from the first layer to the second layer, move the second action from the second layer to the first layer, combine a plurality of actions into the first action, and/or expand the first action into a plurality of actions.
[0180]
The examples shown in FIG. 8A and the accompanying description, above are provided for illustration purposes. This disclosure is not limited to the described examples.
[0181]
FIG. 8B is a flow diagram of an example method for agent-based task execution using an action store in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0182]
The method 820 is performed by processing logic that includes hardware (e.g., processing device, circuitry, dedicated logic, programmable logic, microcode, hardware of a device, integrated circuit, etc.), software (e.g., instructions run or executed on a processing device), or a combination thereof. In some examples, the method 820 is performed by the computing system components shown in FIG. 1 , FIG. 3 , FIG. 4 , one or more components of computing system 900 of FIG. 9 , or agent system 1280 of FIG. 12 . Although shown in a particular sequence or order, unless otherwise specified, the order of the processes is modifiable. In some examples, the processes are performed in a different order, and/or some processes are performed in parallel. Additionally, one or more processes are omitted in some examples. Thus, not all processes are required in every example. Other process flows are possible.
[0183]
At operation 822, the processing device uses an input to determine a task, where the input is obtained via a device and an agent accessible via the device. Illustrative examples of inputs and task determinations are described with reference to FIG. 3 .
[0184]
At operation 824, the processing device uses the task to search an action store, where the action store includes a hierarchical arrangement of actions executable by the agent. Illustrative examples of searching an action store and hierarchical arrangements of actions are described with reference to FIG. 2B, FIG. 2C, and FIG. 3 .
[0185]
At operation 826, in response to determining that the action store includes an action that corresponds to the task, the processing device provides access to the action to the agent. Illustrative examples of providing access to actions to an agent are described with reference to FIG. 1 , FIG. 3 and/or FIG. 4 . At operation 828, the processing device triggers the agent to execute the action. Illustrative examples of triggering an agent to execute an action are described with reference to FIG. 1 , FIG. 3 and/or FIG. 4 .
[0186]
In some examples, the processing device provides the input and a first instruction to a machine learning model, where the first instruction is to cause the machine learning model to determine the task; and receives the task from the machine learning model in response to the first instruction.
[0187]
In some examples, the processing device provides the task and a second instruction to the machine learning model, where the second instruction is to cause the machine learning model to identify the action that corresponds to the task using embedding-based retrieval retrieval-augmented generation, or embedding-based retrieval and retrieval-augmented generation; and receives the identified action from the machine learning model in response to the second instruction. In some examples, the second instruction is to instruct the machine learning model to determine requirements for performing the task and to determine whether the action is capable of performing the requirements.
[0188]
In some examples, the processing device, in response to determining that the action is not capable of performing the requirements, provides the task and a third instruction to the machine learning model, where the third instruction is to cause the machine learning model to iteratively decompose the task into sub-tasks until the action is capable of performing the sub-tasks.
[0189]
In some examples, the processing device provides the task and a fourth instruction to the machine learning model, where the fourth instruction is to cause the machine learning model to identify a plurality of actions that correspond to the task, rank the plurality of actions according to a first criterion associated with the task, and select the action from the ranked plurality of actions according to a second criterion associated with the task; and receives the selected action from the machine learning model in response to the fourth instruction. In some examples, the processing device, in response to determining that a value of a performance metric associated with a first version of the action stored in a first layer of a multi-layer memory meets or exceeds a performance criterion, provides access to the agent to execute the first version of the action from the first layer of the multi-layer memory.
[0190]
In some examples, the agent is a fully autonomous physical robot or self-driving vehicle. In some examples, the processing device determines a mutability characteristic of the action, where the mutability characteristic is an indication of ability of the agent to self-mutate by executing the action; and the processing device uses the mutability characteristic to control the access to the action by the agent.
[0191]
The examples shown in FIG. 8B and the accompanying description, above are provided for illustration purposes. This disclosure is not limited to the described examples.
[0192]
FIG. 8C is a flow diagram of an example method for action store management in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0193]
The method 840 is performed by processing logic that includes hardware (e.g., processing device, circuitry, dedicated logic, programmable logic, microcode, hardware of a device, integrated circuit, etc.), software (e.g., instructions run or executed on a processing device), or a combination thereof. In some examples, the method 840 is performed by the computing system components shown in FIG. 1 , FIG. 3 , FIG. 4 , one or more components of computing system 900 of FIG. 9 , or agent system 1280 of FIG. 12 . Although shown in a particular sequence or order, unless otherwise specified, the order of the processes is modifiable. In some examples, the processes are performed in a different order, and/or some processes are performed in parallel. Additionally, one or more processes are omitted in some examples. Thus, not all processes are required in every example. Other process flows are possible.
[0194]
At operation 842, the processing device receives a signal via an agent, where the signal relates to a first execution of a task by the agent using an action store, where the action store includes a hierarchical arrangement of memory layers, and where the action store includes a plurality of actions stored in one or more of the memory layers, and where the action store stores first mappings between actions and second mappings between actions and memory layers, where the first mappings among actions are hierarchical and an action is executable by the agent. At operation 844, the processing device uses the signal to modify the action store. Illustrative examples of using signals to modify an action store are described with reference to FIG. 1 and FIG. 4 .
[0195]
At operation 846, the processing device provides the modified portion of the action store to a second execution of the task by the agent. Illustrative examples of first and second executions are described with reference to FIG. 5A, FIG. 5B, and FIG. 5C.
[0196]
In some examples, the processing device uses the signal to create or update the first mappings, the second mappings, or the first mappings and the second mappings.
[0197]
In some examples, the processing device, in response to the signal, moves the action from a first layer of the memory layers to a second layer of the memory layers and/or moves the action from the second layer to the first layer.
[0198]
In some examples, the processing device uses the signal and a trajectory optimization mechanism to combine a plurality of actions into the action or expand the action into a plurality of actions. In some examples, the task includes detecting and blocking malicious access to a cloud service and the agent is fully autonomous security software executing on a user computing device. In some examples, the agent is a fully autonomous physical robot or self-driving vehicle.
[0199]
The examples shown in FIG. 8C and the accompanying description, above are provided for illustration purposes. This disclosure is not limited to the described examples.
[0200]
FIG. 9 is a flow diagram of an example component-based method for configuring and/or operating an agent using components of an agent system in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0201]
The method is performed by processing logic that includes hardware (e.g., processing device, circuitry, dedicated logic, programmable logic, microcode, hardware of a device, integrated circuit, etc.), software (e.g., instructions run or executed on a processing device), or a combination thereof. In some examples, the method is performed by components of distributed multi-agent system 905, such as components or flows shown in FIG. 9 that are not specifically shown in other figures and/or components or flows shown in other figures that are not specifically shown in FIG. 9 . Although shown in a particular sequence, arrangement, or order, unless otherwise specified, the order and/or arrangement of the components and/or processes is modifiable. In some examples, the illustrated examples should be understood only as examples, and the illustrated processes are capable of being performed in a different order, and some processes are capable of being performed in parallel. Additionally, one or more processes are omitted in various examples. Thus, not all processes are required in every example. Other process flows are possible.
[0202]
In FIG. 9 , an example computing system 900 is shown, which includes an automated agent 902. The automated agent 902 is in communication with various elements of an environment 901, including a user device 901A, a network 901B, and/or one or more sensing devices 901C. Examples of user devices 901A include computing devices, such as laptop computers, smart phones, mobile computing devices, smart appliances, wearable devices, game controls, vehicle controls, etc. Examples of networks 901B include wireless, optical, and wired communication networks. Examples of sensors include motion sensors, load cells, force sensors, temperature sensors, and network sensors.
[0203]
In some examples, the user device 901A is in communication with one or more applications 904 directly and/or via the automated agent 902. The automated agent 902 is supported by and in communication with one or more of the applications 904 and/or a distributed multi-agent system 905. In some examples, responsive to receiving input via one or more components of the environment 901, the automated agent 902 is dynamically configured or reconfigured to perform a task or a series of tasks, via one or more components of the distributed multi-agent system 905.
[0204]
In the example of FIG. 9 , the components of the computing system 900 are implemented using an application server or server cluster. In some examples, the computing system 900 includes a secure environment (e.g., secure enclave, encryption system, etc.) for the processing of data. In other examples, one or more components of the computing system 900 are implemented on a client device, such as a user system 1210, described herein with reference to FIG. 12 . In some examples, some or all of computing system 900 is implemented directly on a user's device or within an embedded system, thereby avoiding the need to communicate with servers over a network such as the Internet.
[0205]
In some examples, the distributed multi-agent system 905 is in bidirectional communication with one or more applications 904, e.g., directly or via a computer network. In some examples, the one or more applications 904 include user interface functionality that is considered part of or is in communication with automated agent 902 and/or distributed multi-agent system 905. Illustrative, nonlimiting examples of applications that are included in the applications 904 in some examples include search engines 904A, social networks 904B, and/or domain applications 904C. Some examples include other applications alternatively or in addition to search engines 904A, social networks 904B, and domain applications 904C. In some examples, search engines 904A include general-purpose search engines such as Internet search engines and/or domain-specific search engines, e.g., search engines designed specifically for job searching or entity profile searching. In some examples, social networks 904B include general purpose social networks and/or domain-specific social networks such as professional or job-related social networks. Examples of domain applications 904C include user-facing applications such as job posting services, content distribution services, recruiting tools, ecommerce systems, email and messaging systems, enterprise applications, etc. Other examples of domain applications include embedded systems such as device control systems, e.g., navigation systems and robotic systems, as well as other types of sensor-based systems such as augmented reality and mixed reality systems.
[0206]
In the example of FIG. 9 , the distributed multi-agent system 905 includes a plurality of sub-agents 906A, 906B, . . . , 906N, a communication service 908, an adaptive machine learning service 910, and a multi-layer memory structure 911. Any reference to N herein refers to an Nth element of a device, component, system, or process, where N is a positive integer and the value of N is variable depending on the context. For example, in FIG. 9 , the computing system 900 includes N applications 904, N sub-agents 906, N memory layers, N context models, N artificial intelligence services 914, N data resources 916, and N tools 918, where N is capable of having the same value or different values for each or any reference to N.
[0207]
The sub-agents 9906A, 9906B, . . . , 906N cooperate and coordinate with each other to perform tasks on behalf of the user. In some examples, each sub-agent 906A, 906B, . . . , 906N has an assigned role or function, such as a profile sub-agent, a planner sub-agent, a workflow sub-agent, a memory sub-agent, or any other sub-agent that is capable of communicating with the automated agent 902 in executing tasks and fulfilling user requests or goals.
[0208]
Any sub-agent 906A, 906B, . . . , 106N includes or is defined by a combination of computer code, data, memory, AI services 914, data resources 916, and/or tools 918, which are arranged or configured to perform a specific task or action. In some examples, a sub-agent 906A, 906B, . . . , 106N has or includes an associated agent profile, planner, workflow, and memory. The sub-agent's memory is allocated to the sub-agent via the multi-layer memory structure 911. The sub-agent's profile is capable of being pre-defined or configured dynamically using data obtained from one or more data resources 916. In some examples, the sub-agent's profile references one or more registries 916B, which identify one or more of the workflows 916A, memories 912, AI services 914 and/or tools 918 that are accessible to the sub-agent and are usable by the sub-agent to perform the task identified in the sub-agent's profile.
[0209]
Portions of each or any of the sub-agents 906A, 906B, . . . , 106N communicate with each other and/or adaptive machine learning service 910, multi-layer memory structure 911, artificial intelligence services 914, data resources 916, tools 918, and with the automated agent 902, via a communication service 908. Communication service 908 facilitates data exchange and message passing among the components of the distributed multi-agent system 905 and/or components of the computing system 900. Examples of communication service 908 include asynchronous messaging capabilities, which, in some examples, include a publish and subscribe messaging protocol. In some examples, communication service 908 is implemented using, e.g., an agent framework or GAI application having containerized endpoints such as REST (representational state transfer) or gRPC (remote procedure call) that is capable of messaging. In some examples, use of asynchronous messaging is helpful for error handling by, for example, preventing infinite loops and enabling agent processes to be stopped at any time.
[0210]
In some examples, the automated agent 902 or any sub-agent 906A, 906B, . . . , 106N accesses and interfaces with an adaptive machine learning service 910. In some examples, a sub-agent invokes adaptive machine learning service 910 to determine whether a task, request, goal, or objective has been fulfilled and/or to determine whether to dynamically modify a task, workflow or plan. In some examples, adaptive machine learning service 910 includes or interfaces with one or more machine learning models including a Bayesian inference learning mechanism. In some examples, a Bayesian model is constructed that predicts a user's likely responses to output produced by the automated agent 902, using historical examples of the user's online activity to generate a prior probability distribution. In some examples, the automated agent 902 uses predictions of user behavior obtained via the Bayesian model to determine how to perform a task, which output to present to the user, and/or how to present output to the user. After the automated agent 902 performs a task and/or presents output to the user, based on the predictions obtained from the Bayesian model, the automated agent 902 monitors the user's actual response to the task performed and output produced by the automated agent 902. The user's actual response is used to update the Bayesian model, e.g., to generate a posterior probability distribution of the user's likely response. On the iteration or use of the sub-agent, the posterior probability distribution becomes the prior distribution from which updated predictions of user behavior are obtained.
[0211]
In some examples, the automated agent 902 or any sub-agent 906A, 906B, . . . , 106N is implemented as a stateful, LM- and/or LLM-based multi-actor application with built-in persistent memory. Some examples use LMs and/or LLMs in different contexts. Some examples use LMs to enable agents to perform discrete tasks. References to LLM herein are representative of some examples; in other examples, LMs are used alternatively or in addition to the LLMs.
[0212]
Examples of tools that are usable to construct the automated agent 902 or any sub-agent 906A, 906B, . . . , 106N include directive acyclic graph (DAG)-based frameworks and cycle-based frameworks such as LANGGRAPH. In some examples, portions of multi-layer memory structures described herein are implemented using the persistent memory features of LANGGRAPH or other frameworks that enable the integrating of persistent memory with application processes and workflows.
[0213]
Examples of the automated agent 902 or any sub-agent 906A, 906B, . . . , 106N include semi-autonomous cognitive artificial intelligence that learns through interactions with human users. Some examples are data-driven and include hierarchical planners, automatic prompt engineering, code generation, and API discovery. Some examples use a layered memory system implemented using persistent memory structures that is integrated into agents and workflows. In some examples, document databases, document-oriented databases, column-oriented data stores, or document stores, such as NOSQL document stores, are used to implement portions of the multi-layered memory structures. In some examples, portions of the multi-layer memory structure are accessed, referenced, read from or written to using an abstract interface using, e.g., JSON path expressions. Examples operate asynchronously and are distributed, as described in more detail herein.
[0214]
In some examples, task or action refers to an atomic action or operation that an agent or sub-agent is configured to perform, either alone or in combination with other tasks. Workflow refers to an arrangement, sequence, or series of tasks that can be used by an agent to respond to a request or complete a goal or objective, from which an agent selects one or more specific tasks to complete a request, goal, or objective. In some examples, given the same or similar request, goal, or objective, a workflow includes multiple different tasks that are selectable to complete the request, goal, or objective, depending upon the applicable context data. In some examples, a workflow provides an agent with multiple different options for how to complete a request, goal, or objective and the agent uses the currently provided context data to select from among those options in a given instance.
[0215]
Workflows are capable of being generalized or task-specific. Examples of generalized workflows include workflows that build or update a context model, workflows that build or update an agent profile, and workflows that read and write data to and from portions of multi-layer memory structures (e.g., to store user feedback in procedural memory). Another example of a generalized workflow is a workflow that obtains the inputs required to invoke an agent, e.g., to obtain relevant context, interaction history, learned preferences, etc., to parameterize an action (e.g., a specific task of a workflow performed by an agent). The parameterization of actions enables the actions to be configured and customized dynamically using the most current relevant information. In some examples, when an action is invoked, a workflow is executed that obtains the relevant context, historical data, and learned preferences from memory and parameterizes the action with that information. Other examples of generalized workflows include workflows for performing adaptive machine learning processes to build context models (e.g., models of users and environments), updating semantic memory, and translating interaction experiences into procedural memory.
[0216]
In some examples, plan refers to a specific arrangement, sequence, or series of tasks that have been selected by an agent from among one or more available workflow options to complete a task, goal, or objective. Given the same or similar request, goal, or objective, an agent selects one set of tasks to complete the request, goal, or objective in a first context and a different set of tasks to complete the same or similar request, goal, or objective in a second, different context, in some examples. A plan is capable of including a specific ordering of tasks, i.e., instructions as to which task the agent is to perform first, second, third, etc.
[0217]
In some examples, the automated agent 902 or any sub-agent 906A, 906B, . . . , 106N accesses and interfaces with one or more layers of multi-layer memory structure 911. In the example of FIG. 9 , multi-layer memory structure 911 includes a plurality of layers, such as a working memory 912A, an episodic memory 912B, and a collective memory 912C. In other examples, other types of memory layers are used and/or the number of memory layers is configurable depending upon the requirements of a particular design or implementation.
[0218]
In some examples, each of automated agent 902 and every sub-agent 906A, 906B, . . . , 906N has its own multi-layer memory structure 911 (e.g., keyed off the agent's unique agent identifier).
[0219]
In some examples, the different layers of multi-layer memory structure 911 store and manage different types of context models 913A, 913B, . . . , 913N according to their respective scope, duration, relevance, and/or other criteria. In some examples, the working memory 912A stores context models 913A, 913B, . . . , 913N that are related to the current dialog or task, the episodic memory 912B stores context models 913A, 913B, . . . , 913N that are related to previous dialogs or tasks, and the collective memory 912C stores context models 913A, 913B, . . . , 913N that are related to general or domain knowledge.
[0220]
A context model refers to a representation of the state or situation of the automated agent 902, the user, the application 904, or the dialog between the user and the automated agent 902, or a combination of any of the foregoing, at a particular instance, timestamp, or time interval associated with operation of the computing system 900 or automated agent 902, which is created with and/or includes context data. In some examples, a context model includes various types of information, such as preferences, policies, profile data, historical user activity data, sensor data, network data, model parameters, and/or any other data that is usable to configure an agent, workflow, plan, or task. Some examples create, initialize and/or update a context model for a user associated with an automated agent 902 by extracting information from the user's online profile (e.g., a profile page and/or the user's online activity history on a social network). In some examples of physical devices that are controlled by the automated agent 902, a context model includes sensor data collected via sensors associated with the physical devices and control signals generated by components of the devices.
[0221]
Examples of context data include data logged during a user's use of an automated agent 902 and/or one or more applications 904, such as data input, output, or interacted with, the timestamp at the user's login in to the application, and actions taken by the user during the login session, including implicit and/or explicit user interactions with the application's user interface elements. Alternatively or in addition, context data refers to historical data logged during the user's prior uses of one or more applications and/or aggregate data that represents usage statistics across a group or population of users of the application. In some examples, context data includes implicit signals such as a count of the number of times content has been presented to the user, the number of times users interacted with content provided by the system, or the latency in the user's response to content. In some examples, context data includes explicit signals such as explicit reactions (e.g., thumbs-up, thumbs-down, comments, shares, follows) and/or other explicit or implicit feedback signals. In some examples, context data is used to dynamically configure agents, workflows, tasks, and plans.
[0222]
The number of context models is not limited and is configurable depending upon the requirements of a particular design or implementation. Any portions of any one or more of context models 913A, 913B, 913C are capable of being stored in any one or more of the memory layers 912A, 912B, 912C. In some examples, a first context model including data from device 901A is stored in working memory 912A while a second context model including data from network 901B and/or one or more sensors 901C is in episodic memory 912B and a third context model including data from one or more automated agents 902 or sub-agents 906A, 906B, . . . , 906N is stored in collective memory 912C.
[0223]
In some examples, a first context model including a first combination of data obtained from device 901A, network 901B, and/or sensors 901C over a first time interval is stored in working memory 912A while a second context model including a second combination of data obtained from device 901A, network 901B, and/or sensors 901C over a second time interval is stored in episodic memory 912B and a third context model including a third combination of data obtained from device 901A, network 901B, and/or sensors 901C over a third time interval is stored in collective memory 912C, where the first, second, and third context models, combinations of data, and/or time intervals are respectively different.
[0224]
Also or alternatively, different portions of the multi-layer memory structure 111 are capable of being used to store context data for different automated agents 902 and/or sub-agents 906A, 906B, . . . , 906N. In some examples, different portions of the working memory 912A and/or episodic memory 912B are used to store context data for different automated agents 902 and/or different portions of the collective memory 912C are used to store context data and/or output generated by one or more sub-agents 906A, 906B, . . . , 906N. In some examples, if an action performed by a first sub-agent 906A, 906B, . . . , 906N is dependent upon output of an action of a second sub-agent 906A, 906B, . . . , 906N, collective memory 912C is used to store the output of the second-sub-agent in a memory layer that is accessible by the first sub-agent.
[0225]
Any one or more of automated agent 902, applications 904 and/or portions of distributed multi-agent system 905 is capable of interfacing or communicating with any one or more of artificial intelligence (AI) services 914, data resources 916, and/or tools 918 either directly or via a communication service 908 that provides artificial intelligence (AI) services 914 and data resources 916 to the automated agent 902. Any of the AI services 914, data resources 916, and/or tools 918 is capable of being a component of the distributed multi-agent system 905 or a separate component, such as a hosted service.
[0226]
The AI services 914 include various types of machine learning models and/or algorithms that are capable of enhancing the capabilities and performance of the automated agent 902, such as but not limited to one or more large language models (LLMs) 914A, Bayesian inference learning (BIL) models 914B, and machine learning (ML) models 914C, or any other AI service that are capable of providing, for instance, natural language understanding, natural language generation, dialog management, task execution, intent classification, entity extraction, information extraction, code generation, embedding generation models, similarity prediction, scoring, and/or any other function related to the operation of the automated agent 902 or any sub-agent.
[0227]
A large language model 914A has an associated model type, architecture, and configuration, associated arguments, and associated micro-prompts, where the arguments are placeholders for information, such as context data, to be inserted into the micro-prompts. Micro-prompts are LLM prompts that are tailored for domain- or task-specific (e.g., fine-tuned) language models. In some examples, a micro-prompt includes a particular combination or arrangement of instructions, constraints, examples, and/or parameters or arguments that is configured specifically to cause a particular domain- or task-specific language model to produce a particular type of output while avoiding or reducing the risk of AI hallucination. In some examples, a micro-prompt is configured to cause a language model to perform a specific atomic action such as to generate a query to access one or more layers of a layered memory structure, or to map data retrieved from a layered memory structure to arguments of another prompt.
[0228]
In some examples, a language model or large language model type, architecture, and configuration includes one or more neural network-based machine learning models. In some examples, a large language model 914A is constructed using a neural network-based deep learning model architecture. In some examples, the neural network-based architecture includes one or more input layers that receive model inputs, generate one or more embeddings based on the model inputs, and pass the one or more embeddings to one or more other layers of the neural network. In other examples, the one or more embeddings are generated based on the model input by a pre-processor, the embeddings are input to the neural network model, and the neural network model generates output based on the embeddings.
[0229]
In some examples, the neural network-based machine learning model architecture includes one or more self-attention layers that allow the model to assign different weights to portions of the model input. Alternatively or in addition, the neural network architecture includes feed-forward layers and residual connections that allow the model to machine-learn complex data patterns including relationships between different portions of the model input in multiple different contexts. In some examples, the neural network-based machine learning model architecture is constructed using a transformer-based architecture that includes self-attention layers, feed-forward layers, and residual connections between the layers. The exact number and arrangement of layers of each type as well as the hyperparameter values used to configure the model are determined based on the requirements of a particular design or implementation of the distributed multi-agent system 905.
[0230]
In some examples, the neural network-based machine learning model architecture includes or is based on one or more generative transformer models, one or more generative pre-trained transformer (GPT) models, one or more bidirectional encoder representations from transformers (BERT) models, one or more language models (LMs), one or more large language models (LLMs), one or more XLNet models, and/or one or more other natural language processing (NL) models. In some examples, the neural network-based machine learning model architecture includes or is based on one or more predictive text neural models that receive text input and generate one or more outputs based on processing the text with one or more neural network models. Examples of predictive neural models include, but are not limited to, Generative Pre-Trained Transformers (GPT), BERT, and/or Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs). In some examples, one or more types of neural network-based machine learning model architectures include or are based on one or more multimodal neural networks capable of outputting different modalities (e.g., text, image, sound, etc.) separately and/or in combination based on textual input. Accordingly, in some examples, a multimodal neural network implemented in the agent system is capable of outputting digital content that includes a combination of two or more of text, images, video or audio.
[0231]
In some examples, a large language model 914A is trained on a large dataset of digital content such as natural language text, images, videos, audio files, or multi-modal data sets. For example, training samples of digital content such as natural language text extracted from publicly available data sources are used to train one or more generative models used by the agent system. The size and composition of the datasets used to train one or more models used by the agent system are variable according to the requirements of a particular design or implementation of the agent system. In some examples, one or more of the datasets used to train one or more models used by the agent system includes hundreds of thousands to millions or more different training samples.
[0232]
In some examples, one or more models used by the agent system include multiple generative models trained on differently sized datasets. In some examples, an agent system includes a comprehensive but low capacity generative model that is trained on a large data set. In some examples, the same generative model includes a less comprehensive but high capacity model that is trained on a smaller data set, and the high capacity model is used to generate outputs based on examples obtained from the low capacity model. In some examples, reinforcement learning is used to further improve the output of one or more models used by the agent system. In reinforcement learning, ground-truth examples of desired model output are paired with respective inputs, and these input-example output pairs are used to train or fine tune one or more models.
[0233]
In some examples, prompt refers to one or more instructions that are readable by a GAI model, such as a large language model 914A, along with the input to which the GAI model is to apply the instructions, and a set of parameter values that constrain the operations of the GAI model during the processing of the prompt and generating and outputting a response to the prompt. In some examples, the prompt input includes user input and/or context data. In some examples, the prompt input is specified explicitly in the prompt or as a reference that is processed at execution time. In some examples, the prompt instructions include one or more statements, questions, conditions, constraints, or prompt examples. Some instructions include prompt examples, which are illustrative examples of the types of output to be produced by the GAI model and/or examples of the types of processing steps the large language model is to perform in order to generate output.
[0234]
In some examples, the parameter values contained in the prompt are specified by the GAI model and are adjustable in accordance with the requirements of a particular design or implementation. Examples of parameter values include the maximum length or size of the prompt and the temperature, or degree to which the model produces deterministic output versus random output. The way in which the elements of the prompt are organized and the phrasing used to articulate the prompt elements is capable of significantly affecting the output produced by the GAI model in response to the prompt. In some examples, a small change in the prompt content or structure is capable of causing the GAI model to generate a very different output.
[0235]
Zero-shot prompt refers to a type of large language model prompt that does not include any prompt examples, e.g., the prompt only includes an input and a task description that does not include any examples to guide the large language model as to how to perform the task. An example of a zero-shot prompt is “classify the user input [input1] into action_a, action_b, or action_c,” where [input1] is a placeholder for the user input and/or associated context data and action_a, action_b, and action_c are possible intents into which the large language model is capable of classifying input1. A few-shot prompt includes examples along with an instruction to cause the large language model to follow the examples provided when processing an input. An example of a few-shot prompt is “‘software engineering’→job_search; ‘fill’→job_candidate_search; what is the intent of [input1]?” where ‘software engineering’→job_search and ‘fill’→job_candidate_search are examples of how to classify inputs into search categories, and input1 includes user input and/or context data.
[0236]
In some examples, a chain-of-thought prompt refers to a type of large language model prompt that includes an input and a prompt example that includes the types of steps the large language model is to perform, such as intermediate steps or reasoning. In some examples, the chain-of-thought prompt includes a series of steps that illustrate to the large language model a process for how to select functions or logical groupings of functions to be included in a plan.
[0237]
The data resources 916 include various types of data or information that are capable of being used by the automated agent 902, any sub-agent 906A, 906B, . . . , 906N, any of the AI services 914, or any of the tools 918. Examples of data resources 916 include but are not limited to workflows 916A, registries 916B, data stores 916C, and/or any other data resource that provides knowledge, facts, rules, policies, preferences, or any other information related to the applications 904, the user, the environment 901, and/or the domain of the automated agent 902.
[0238]
Registries 916B include, e.g., files, lookup tables, or databases that store information about which AI services 914, data resources 916, and/or tools 918 are accessible to a particular automated agent 902. In some examples, different automated agents 902 have different associated registries 916B and the contents of the same type of registry is different for different automated agents (e.g., the contents of respective workflow registries is different for different agents). Data stores 916C include but are not limited to embedding data stores or vector stores (e.g., data stores that store embeddings, i.e., compressed or vector representations of data) and/or other kinds of searchable data stores.
[0239]
The data resources include, alternatively or additionally, entity profile data (e.g., profile data for a device, robot, vehicle, network, etc., company profiles, job postings, etc.), activity data (e.g., historical interaction data such as search histories, chat histories, and/or interaction histories associated with the user's use of applications 904), digital content, including documents and other content items that are accessible via Internet search engines, such as web pages and multimedia content, taxonomies, data stores, services, or artificial intelligence models, entity graphs and knowledge graphs, applications 904, such as other vertical applications and/or external applications which are in communication with the automated agent 902, and metrics, such as performance metrics associated with an AI service, such as a large language model, or any of the data resources or tools. Entity profile data includes current and/or historical attribute data associated with the user (e.g., user preferences and/or biographical data such as skills, work experiences, and education history) or another entity associated with the user (such as a company or a computing resource).
[0240]
The tools 918 include various types of software and/or hardware components that facilitate operation of the automated agent 902 and/or the interaction of the automated agent 902 with the AI services 914 and/or the data resources 916. Examples of tools 918 include but are not limited to application programming interfaces (APIs) 918A, search tools 918B, functions 918C, or any other software and/or hardware component that provide access, retrieval, processing, or manipulation of data or information for the automated agent 902.
[0241]
In operation, the distributed multi-agent system 905 creates and initializes an instance of the automated agent 902 in response to one or more inputs, signals, or events obtained from the environment 901, in cooperation with one or more applications 904, if applicable, and using one or more AI services 914, data resources 916, and/or tools 918. The automated agent 902 receives input expressed as structured language and/or conversational natural language, such as text, speech, or gesture. The input indicates a request, a command, a query, feedback, or any other type of input. The input is capable of being associated with context data, such as a timestamp, a geographic location, a device, network, or session identifier, a topic, a goal, or any other information that is capable of affecting the interpretation of the input by the automated agent 902 or the response generated by the automated agent 902 to the input.
[0242]
To generate a response to the input, the automated agent 902 invokes one or more sub-agents of the distributed multi-agent system 905. In some examples, a planner sub-agent of the distributed multi-agent system 905 is invoked to generate a plan for responding to the input using as input a workflow, a profile, and a context model obtained from one or more of the memory layers. In some examples, the plan includes a plurality of actions that need to be performed (e.g., in sequence or in parallel), where each action has an associated action sub-agent. In some examples, each action sub-agent operates in a similar manner as the planner sub-agent. An action sub-agent generates a sub-plan for performing its assigned action in a similar manner as the planner sub-agent generates the plan, in some examples. Thus, the distributed multi-agent system 905 is capable of providing hierarchical planning in which any plan is capable of being expanded to include a plurality of sub-plans, where each sub-plan is performed by a sub-agent and the output is returned to the planner agent or the calling sub-agent, as the case may be. At any level of the planning hierarchy, the respective agent 902 or sub-agent 906 coordinates the generation and execution of the respective plan and any sub-plans.
[0243]
The examples shown in FIG. 9 and the accompanying description, above are provided for illustration purposes. This disclosure is not limited to the described examples.
[0244]
FIG. 10 is a flow diagram of an example method for creating and configuring an automated agent using components of an agent system in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0245]
The method is performed by processing logic that includes hardware (e.g., processing device, circuitry, dedicated logic, programmable logic, microcode, hardware of a device, integrated circuit, etc.), software (e.g., instructions run or executed on a processing device), or a combination thereof. In some examples, the method is performed by components of distributed multi-agent system 905, including components or flows shown in FIG. 10 that are not specifically shown in other figures and/or including components or flows shown in other figures that are not specifically shown in FIG. 10 . Although shown in a particular sequence or order, unless otherwise specified, the order of the processes is modifiable. Thus the illustrated processes are performed in a different order, and/or some processes are performed in parallel, in some examples. Additionally, one or more processes are omitted in various examples. Thus, not all processes are required in every example. Other process flows are possible.
[0246]
In FIG. 10 , the example method is performed by components of an automated agent system 1000. The automated agent system 1000 includes one or more components of an environment 1001, such as a user device or system 201A, a network 201B, and one or more sensors 201C, one or more messaging services 1010, one or more data resources 1026, artificial intelligence (AI) services 1030, and tools 1032.
[0247]
The one or more messaging services 1010 is or includes portions of communication service 908. In some examples, the one or more messaging services 1010 facilitates data exchange and message passing among the components of the automated agent system 1000. Examples of the one or more messaging services 1010 include asynchronous messaging capabilities, which are capable of being implemented using a publish and subscribe messaging protocol. In some examples, the one or more messaging services 1010 are implemented using, e.g., an agent framework or GAI application having dockerized endpoints such as REST (representational state transfer) or gRPC (remote procedure call) that are capable of messaging. Use of asynchronous messaging is often helpful for error handling by, for example, preventing infinite loops and enabling agent processes to be stopped at any time.
[0248]
The one or more data resources 1026 include portions of data resources 916. In some examples, the data resources 1026 include various types of data or information that are used by the automated agent 1012, any sub-agent, any of the AI services 1030, or any of the tools 1032. Examples of data resources 1026 include but are not limited to workflows, registries, data stores, and/or any other data resource that provide knowledge, facts, rules, policies, preferences, or any other information related to one or more applications, the user, the environment 1001, and/or the domain of the automated agent 1012.
[0249]
The artificial intelligence (AI) services 1030 include portions of AI services 914. In some examples, the AI services 1030 include various types of machine learning models and/or algorithms that enhance the capabilities and performance of the automated agent 902, such as but not limited to one or more large language models (LLMs), Bayesian inference learning (BIL) models, machine learning (ML) models, or any other AI service that provide, for instance, natural language understanding, natural language generation, dialog management, task execution, intent classification, entity extraction, information extraction, code generation, embedding generation models, similarity prediction, scoring, and/or any other function related to the operation of the automated agent 1012 or any sub-agent.
[0250]
The tools 1032 include portions of tools 918. In some examples, the tools 1032 include various types of software and/or hardware components that facilitate operation of the automated agent 1012 and/or the interaction of the automated agent 1012 with the AI services 1030 and/or the data resources 1026. Examples of tools 1032 include but are not limited to application programming interfaces (APIs), search tools, functions, or any other software and/or hardware component that provide access, retrieval, processing, or manipulation of data or information for the automated agent 1012.
[0251]
In the automated agent 1000, planner agents, such as adaptive machine learning-based orchestrator 1016, each are interwoven with a multi-layer memory structure 1018, which allows the planner agents to maintain their own state (where a state includes a pointer or reference to a portion of the multi-layer memory 1018). When a planner agent generates a plan, micro-prompts represent actions within the state of the plan.
[0252]
One or more signals generated by the environment 1001 are capable of triggering a start automated agent process 1002. In some examples, a login to an application 904 generates a session identifier (ID). The session ID provides continuity across multiple interactions involving one or more of the components of the environment 1001. The start automated agent process 1002 is launched by, e.g., a sub-agent of the distributed multi-agent system 905, in response to a session ID. In some examples, if input from the environment 1001 satisfies a condition or threshold criteria, which is capable of being stored in and retrieved from the multi-layer memory 1018, the start automated agent process 1002 obtains or creates an agent identifier (e.g., the agent ID includes the session ID). The process 1002 passes the agent ID to a create instance of automated agent process 1008 via flow 1005 and also passes the agent ID to messaging service 1010 via flow 1006.
[0253]
The process 1008 creates and launches an instance of an automated agent, e.g., automated agent 902, which is dynamically configured based on the signal(s) from the environment 1001 and/or context data obtained via the multi-layer memory 1018. The create instance of automated agent process 1008 includes one or more sub-processes that, e.g., load data into data registries 1024, initialize messaging service 1010, and create the instance of the automated agent based on the data loaded into the data registries 1024. For example, the process 1008 uses the agent ID obtained from the process 1002 to look up the sub-agents, models, micro-prompts, planners, skills, etc., that are accessible to that agent ID, and loads that information into the registries 1024. In some examples, the registry data is organized according to data type; e.g., a registry 1 1024 a stores model identifiers of LLMs and/or other AI services 1030 or tools 1032 that are accessible to the agent ID, a registry 2 1024 b stores micro-prompt identifiers of micro-prompts that are accessible to the agent ID, and one or more additional registries N 1024 c store skill identifiers, planner identifiers, or identifiers of data resources 1026 that are accessible to the agent ID. Accessible to as used herein means that a particular instance of an automated agent (e.g., the instance identified by the agent ID) has permission to access and use the components identified in the registry. In some examples, whether the instance has permission is determined by querying one or more policies, portions of which are stored in data resources 1026 and/or multi-layer memory 1018. Since the registries are populated at the time of instance creation, the contents of the registries is dynamic and is capable of being changed or updated from one instance to the next, e.g., based on the then-current signals from the environment 1001 and/or data obtained from the multi-layer memory 1018 and/or data resources 1026.
[0254]
Automated agent 1012 is a representation of the automated agent instance created by process 1008. The automated agent 1012 is defined by and includes an agent definition 1014, adaptive machine learning-based orchestrator 1016, multi-layer memory 1018, router 1022, and data registries 1024. In some examples, the agent definition 1014 includes information used to initialize the instance, such as an initial LLM prompt, an agent identifier of an agent that is configured to execute an initialization routine (e.g., an onboarding process), a user identifier, e.g., a user ID that identifies a profile page, an initial workflow identifier (e.g., an onboarding workflow), an action type (e.g., onboarding), and one or more action identifiers, which identify actions in the initial workflow. Examples of identifiers or IDs include unique identifiers, such as numeric or alphanumeric codes and URIs (uniform resource identifiers).
[0255]
Adaptive machine learning-based orchestrator 1016 includes or invokes an AI service 1030, such as an LLM, that controls the operation of the automated agent 1012 during the instance created by process 1008. For example, the orchestrator 1016 generates and executes a plan that manages the execution of actions, workflows, and adaptive machine learning processes by automated agent 1012 to accomplish a goal, perform a task, or achieve an objective. The plan generated and executed by the orchestrator is based on one or more workflows 1004, which are accessible to the orchestrator 1016 via flows 236 a, 236 b, and messaging service 1010. The dashed lines in flows 236 a and 236 b indicate that the one or more workflows 1004 are capable of being dynamically retrieved, queried or updated during the operation of automated agent 1012. In the course of executing a plan, the orchestrator 1016 communicates requests for tools 1032 and/or AI services 1030 to router 1022.
[0256]
Multi-layer memory 1018 includes a multi-layer memory structure that includes, for example, memory 1 1020 a, memory 2 1020 b, memory 3, 1020 c, and memory N 220 d. In some examples, each of these memories or memory layers is configured to store different types of data. In some examples, memory 1 1020 a is configured as a working memory, memory 2 1020 b is configured as an episodic memory, memory 3 is configured as a long-term memory, and memory N 22 d includes various types of collective memory, such as swarm collective memory, host collective memory, and global collective memory. Various types and configurations of multi-layer memory structures are shown in FIG. 11A, and FIG. 11B, described below. Each or any of the layers or memories of the multi-layer memory 1018 is configured to obtain data from one or more data resources 1026, such as content databases and/or embedding stores or vector databases. Because the memories or memory layers are integrated with the planners and workflows, the memory accesses occur in the context of those planners and respective workflows.
[0257]
Router 1022 controls access to and invocation of tools 1032 and/or AI services 1030 by the automated agent 1012. In some examples, in operation, router 1022 receives requests for tools and/or AI services from orchestrator 1016 via flow 1038. Router 1022 validates the requests (e.g., by checking the message type of the request against a policy or directory of valid message types). If the request is valid, router 1022 checks to make sure the tool and/or AI services requested by the request is accessible to the automated agent 1012. For example, router 1022 queries one or more of the data registries 1024 to see if the tool and/or AI service identified in the request matches a tool and/or AI service listed in the registries 1024. If the request is valid and the requested tool or AI service is accessible to the automated agent 1012, the router 1022 invokes the requested tool or AI service via flow 1040, e.g., by including the tool or AI service identifier in an invocation thread 1028, along with any necessary arguments and micro-prompts.
[0258]
When an AI service 1030 or tool 1032 completes its execution in response to an invocation thread 1028, portions of the tool or AI service response are stored in a memory or memory layer of multi-layer memory 1018 via flow 1042, e.g., via a memory path, which is identified by a reference or pointer embedded within the respective invocation thread 1028, in some examples. Alternatively or in addition, portions of the tool or AI service response are communicated back to orchestrator 1016 via flow 1044, messaging service 1010, and flow 1034.
[0259]
The examples shown in FIG. 10 and the accompanying description, above are provided for illustration purposes. This disclosure is not limited to the described examples.
[0260]
FIG. 11A is a flow diagram of an example of a layered memory structure for an automated agent in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0261]
The method is performed by processing logic that includes hardware (e.g., processing device, circuitry, dedicated logic, programmable logic, microcode, hardware of a device, integrated circuit, etc.), software (e.g., instructions run or executed on a processing device), or a combination thereof. In some examples, the method is performed by components of distributed multi-agent system 905, including components or flows shown in FIG. 11A that are not specifically shown in other figures and/or including components or flows shown in other figures that are not specifically shown in FIG. 11A. Although shown in a particular sequence or order, unless otherwise specified, the order of the processes is modifiable. The illustrated processes are performed in a different order, and/or some processes are performed in parallel, in some examples. Additionally, one or more processes are omitted in some examples. Thus, not all processes are required in every example. Other process flows are possible.
[0262]
The layered memory structure 1100 of FIG. 11A includes a working memory 1102, a long-term memory 1110, and a collective memory 1120. In the example of FIG. 11A, working memory 1102 is capable of storing and managing information such as task context 1104 and communications 1106. Context models, described above, are examples of task context 1104. Messages, such as inter-process messages and other communications between components of the computing system (e.g., computing system 900) are examples of communications 1106. Additionally or alternatively, working memory 1102 stores and manages other types of data alone or in combination with one or more of task context 1104 or communications 1106.
[0263]
Long-term memory 1110, in the example of FIG. 11A, includes a knowledge memory 1112, a procedural memory 1114, and an episodic memory 1116. Additionally or alternatively, long-term memory 1110 includes other types of memory alone or in combination with one or more of knowledge memory 1112, procedural memory 1114, or episodic memory 1116.
[0264]
Long-term memory 1110 is capable of storing and managing information such as compressed versions of data stored in working memory 1102. In some examples, episodic memory 1116 stores and manages, e.g., embeddings or other compressed forms of task context 1104, communications 1106, and/or other information stored in working memory. In some examples, if a user updates their online profile multiple times during the course of a time interval, those updates are summarized and stored in episodic memory 1116.
[0265]
In some examples, long-term memory 1110 stores and manage learnings resulting from agent executions of adaptive machine learning processes. These learnings are grouped into different memory layers, such as knowledge memory 1112 and procedural memory 1114, in some examples. Portions of long-term memory 1110 that store and manage semantic information and procedural information are sometimes referred to as knowledge memory and procedural memory, respectively.
[0266]
An example of semantic information is a synonym, definition or explanation of a word or phrase. For instance, the job title “senior software engineer” is sometimes associated by a particular user with a certain group of skills, such as Java, PYTHON, data science, neural networks, etc. The semantic information is customizable for each individual user. In some examples, two or more users who work for different companies have different, personalized meanings or definitions for “senior software engineer,” and these multiple different meanings or definitions are stored and maintained in respective long-term memories 1110 associated with the respective users.
[0267]
An example of procedural information is a sequence of steps associated with a particular task. In some examples, two or more users who are both recruiters each prefer a different sequence of steps for performing a job search or other recruiting task. These different task definitions, which are capable of being different in terms of the types of steps that are included and/or the order of the steps, are stored and maintained in respective long-term memories associated with the respective users.
[0268]
The arrows between the working memory 1102, long-term memory 1110, and collective memory 1120 indicate one potential method of moving data between the memories 1102, 1110, 1120. In some examples, context data such as user preference and/or activity information is initially stored in working memory 1102, then moved from working memory 1102 to long-term memory 1110, then moved from long-term memory 1110 to collective memory 1120, in accordance with memory processing workflows. Other process flows are possible; e.g., some information is moved directly from working memory 1102 to collective memory 1120, in some examples.
[0269]
Specialized agents (e.g., one or more sub-agents 906) are configurable to perform memory management operations, such as an operation to compress data obtained from working memory 1102 and store the compressed data in another memory layer (e.g., long-term memory 1110 or collective memory 1120), and/or an operation to search one or more of the memory layers for information and extract data that matches the search criteria from the respective memory layers in which the information matching the query is stored. In some examples, a specialized agent for a memory management operation is defined by a specialized memory management workflow that contains only the tasks required to perform the particular memory management operation and/or a specialized micro-prompt that, for example, contains an instruction that instructs an LLM to generate and output a plan that is executable to perform the particular memory management operation.
[0270]
The examples shown in FIG. 11A and the accompanying description, above are provided for illustration purposes. This disclosure is not limited to the described examples.
[0271]
FIG. 11B is a flow diagram of an example of a layered memory structure for an automated agent in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0272]
The method is performed by processing logic that includes hardware (e.g., processing device, circuitry, dedicated logic, programmable logic, microcode, hardware of a device, integrated circuit, etc.), software (e.g., instructions run or executed on a processing device), or a combination thereof. In some examples, the method is performed by components of distributed multi-agent system 905, including components or flows shown in FIG. 11B that are not specifically shown in other figures and/or including components or flows shown in other figures that are not specifically shown in FIG. 11B. Although shown in a particular sequence or order, unless otherwise specified, the order of the processes is modifiable. The illustrated processes are performed in a different order, and/or some processes are performed in parallel, in some examples. Additionally, one or more processes are omitted in some examples. Thus, not all processes are required in every example. Other process flows are possible.
[0273]
In the example of FIG. 11B, a multi-layered memory structure 1150 includes N memory layers, each of which is associated with a different access level. In some examples, access level refers to the ability of various systems, components, resources, models, users, processes, devices, etc. to read and/or write data to and/or from a particular memory layer of the multi-layered memory structure 1150. The assignment of access levels to the various systems, components, resources, models, users, processes, devices, etc., is customizable based on the requirements or design of a particular implementation of the computing system. In some examples, access level 1 memory 1152 has an associated access level 1 that is the most restrictive and therefore acts as a gateway for one or more other memory layers, such that permission is granted to read and/or write to access level 2 memory 1154 and/or access level N memory 1156 only to systems, components, resources, models, users, processes, devices, etc., that satisfy the access level 1 requirements. In some examples, access level N memory 1156 has an associated access level N that is least restrictive in that many different agents (and not just a single agent) are granted permission to access that memory.
[0274]
The arrows between the access level 1 memory 1152, access level 2 memory 1154, and access level N memory 1156 indicate one potential method of moving data (e.g., context data) between the memories. In some examples, information is initially stored in access level 1 memory 1152, then moved from access level 1 memory 1152 to access level 2 memory 1154, then moved from access level 2 memory 1154 to access level N memory 1156. Other process flows are possible; e.g., some information is moved directly from access level 1 memory 1152 to access level N memory 1156, in some examples.
[0275]
In some examples, specialized agents (e.g., one or more sub-agents 906) are configured to perform memory management operations, such as an operation to compress data obtained from access level 1 memory 1152 and store the compressed data in another memory layer (e.g., access level 2 memory 1154 and/or access level N memory 1156), and/or an operation to search one or more of the memory layers for information and extract data that matches the search criteria from the respective memory layers in which the information matching the query is stored. In some examples, a specialized agent for a memory management operation is defined by a specialized memory management workflow that contains only the tasks required to perform the particular memory management operation and/or a specialized micro-prompt that, for example, contains an instruction that instructs an LLM to generate and output a plan that is executable to perform the particular memory management operation.
[0276]
Layered memory structures such as those shown in FIG. 11A and FIG. 11B are allocated or assigned to specific agents, in some examples. When an instance of an automated agent is created, such as described in connection with FIG. 10 , a multi-layered memory structure (or a portion thereof) is allocated for use by that instance of the automated agent, and that memory structure is initialized, populated or updated at instance creation and/or during or as a result of execution of the automated agent in that instance. When a different instance of an automated agent is created, whether associated with the same user or a different user, a different multi-layered memory structure (or a portion thereof) is allocated for use by that instance of the automated agent, and that memory structure is initialized, populated or updated at instance creation and/or during or as a result of execution of the automated agent in that instance.
[0277]
The examples shown in FIG. 11B and the accompanying description, above are provided for illustration purposes. This disclosure is not limited to the described examples.
[0278]
Multi-layer memory structures such as the examples shown in FIG. 11A and/or FIG. 11B are capable of being implemented using, e.g., one or more storage trees, storage stacks, and/or path templates with, for example, a higher-order resolver, where the path templates are resolved at runtime. Multi-layer memory structures such as the examples shown in FIG. 11A and/or FIG. 11B are capable of being queried using, e.g., argument names and/or strings and a semantic search or a RAG (retrieval-augmented generation) approach. In some examples, policies specify whether the contents of one memory layer overrides another memory layer in a given instance, task, or workflow. In some examples, a policy (e.g., a corporate policy) instructs the query to use information obtained from a collective memory instead of information obtained from a personal or private memory, in the context of an action whose output is accessible to a team of agents. In some examples, memory is queried across all layers and then the most relevant portions of the retrieved information are selected and extracted from the query results and mapped to their respective arguments in the action call. An LLM or other type of model or tool is capable of being used to map the relevant portions of the retrieved information to their respective arguments. In some examples, the information retrieved by querying is included in an LLM prompt (e.g., a micro-prompt) that has been specially configured to cause an LLM to perform the specific task of function calling, and then the prompt is passed to the LLM which maps the information to arguments and generates the function call.
[0279]
In some examples, memory structures and/or processes described with reference to FIG. 11A and/or FIG. 11B are used to determine and manage memory operations using an order of precedence. In some examples, an order of precedence is determined by querying a policy or a registry associated with an agent. In some examples, a first order of precedence is specified for an agent that is included in a group of agents that collectively performs a task, and a second order of precedence is specified for an agent that is not part of a group of agents. In some examples, the order of precedence is implemented as weight values that are applied to data retrieved from different memory layers. In some examples, data retrieved from working memory is weighted more highly than data retrieved from episodic or long-term memory or collective memory depending on its relevance to the current task, objective, goal, or intent. In some examples, data retrieved from episodic or long-term memory or collective memory is weighted more highly than data retrieved from working memory depending on its relevance to the current task, objective, goal, or intent. In some examples, order of precedence is determined using access levels. Agents that are part of a group are capable of accessing collective memory associated with an individual agent but not capable of accessing other memory layers associated with that agent, while the individual agent itself is capable of accessing all of its respective memory layers, in some examples.
[0280]
The examples shown in FIG. 11B and the accompanying description, above are provided for illustration purposes. This disclosure is not limited to the described examples.
[0281]
FIG. 12 is a block diagram of a computing system that includes an agent system in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0282]
In the example of FIG. 12 , a computing system 1200 includes one or more user systems 1210, a network 1220, an application system 1230, data resources and tools 1250, an agent system 1280, a data storage system 1260, an event logging service 1270, and an AI model service 1290.
[0283]
All or at least some components of agent system 1280 are implemented at the user system 1210, in some examples. For example, portions of agent system 1280 are implemented directly upon a single client device such that communications involving applications running on user system 1210 and agent system 1280 occur on-device without the need to communicate with, e.g., one or more servers, over the Internet. Dashed lines are used in FIG. 12 to indicate that all or portions of agent system 1280 are capable of being implemented directly on the user system 1210, e.g., the user's client device. In some examples, both user system 1210 and agent system 1280 are implemented on the same computing device, in some examples. In other examples, all or portions of agent system 1280 are implemented on one or more servers and in communication with user systems 1210 via network 1220. Components of the computing system 1200 including the agent system 1280 are described in more detail herein.
[0284]
A user system 1210 includes one or more computing devices. Examples of computing devices include a personal computing device, a server, a mobile computing device, a wearable electronic device, or a smart appliance. The user system 1210 includes one or more software applications that a computing device is capable of executing alone or in combination with one or more other computing devices. Examples of software applications include an operating system or a front end of an online system. Many different user systems 1210 are capable of being connected to network 1220 at the same time or at different times. In some examples, different user systems 1210 contain similar components as described in connection with the illustrated user system 1210. In some examples, many different end users of computing system 1200 interact with many different instances of application system 1230 through their respective user systems 1210, at the same time or at different times.
[0285]
User system 1210 includes a user interface 1212. User interface 1212 is installed on user system 1210 or accessible to user system 1210 via network 1220. In some examples, user interface 1212 includes a front end portion of an automated agent (e.g., automated agent 902) and/or agent system 1280.
[0286]
User interface 1212 includes, for example, a graphical display screen that includes graphical user interface elements. Examples of graphical user interface elements include an input box or other input mechanism and a slot. A slot as used herein refers to a space on a graphical display such as a web page or mobile device screen, into which output, e.g., digital content such as search results, feed items, chat boxes, or threads, is loaded for display to the user. In some examples, user interface 1212 includes a scrollable arrangement of variable-length slots that simulates an online chat or instant messaging session and/or a scrollable arrangement of slots that contain content items or search results. The locations and dimensions of a particular graphical user interface element on a screen are specified using, for example, a markup language such as HTML (Hypertext Markup Language). On a typical display screen, a graphical user interface element is defined by two-dimensional coordinates. In other examples such as virtual reality or augmented reality examples, a slot is defined using a three-dimensional coordinate system. Example screen captures of user interface screens that are capable of being included in user interface 1212 are shown in the drawings and described herein.
[0287]
User interface 1212 is capable of interacting with the agent system 1280 and/or one or more application systems 1230. For example, user interface 1212 enables the user of a user system 1210 to interact with the automated agent 902 to create, edit, send, view, receive, process, and organize workflows, tasks, plans, search queries, search results, content items, news feeds, and/or portions of online dialogs. In some examples, user interface 1212 enables the user to input requests (e.g., queries) for various different types of information, to initiate user interface events, and to view or otherwise perceive output such as data and/or digital content produced by, e.g., an application system 1230, agent system 1280, content distribution service 1238 and/or search engine 1240. In some examples, user interface 1212 includes a graphical user interface (GUI), a conversational voice/speech interface, a virtual reality, augmented reality, or mixed reality interface, and/or a haptic interface. User interface 1212 includes a mechanism for entering search queries and/or selecting search criteria (e.g., facets, filters, etc.), selecting GUI user input control elements, and interacting with digital content such as search results, entity profiles, posts, articles, feeds, and online dialogs, in some examples. Some examples of user interface 1212 include web browsers, command line interfaces, and mobile app front ends. User interface 1212 as used herein includes application programming interfaces (APIs) in some examples.
[0288]
Network 1220 includes an electronic communications network. Network 1220 is implemented on any medium or mechanism that provides for the exchange of digital data, signals, and/or instructions between the various components of computing system 1200. Examples of network 1220 include, without limitation, a Local Area Network (LAN), a Wide Area Network (WAN), an Ethernet network or the Internet, or a terrestrial, satellite or wireless link, or a combination of any number of different networks and/or communication links.
[0289]
Application system 1230 includes, for example, one or more online systems that provide social network services, general-purpose search engines, specific-purpose search engines, messaging systems, content distribution platforms, e-commerce software, enterprise software, or any combination of any of the foregoing or other types of software. Application system 1230 includes any type of application system that provides or enables the retrieval of and interactions with one or more forms of digital content, including machine-generated content via user interface 1212. In some examples, portions of agent system 1280 are components of application system 1230. In some examples, an application system 1230 includes one or more of an entity graph 1232 and/or knowledge graph 1234, a user connection network 15315, a content distribution service 1238, and/or a search engine 1240. In other examples, application system 1230 interacts with agent system 1280 to control a physical machine or device, such as a vehicle or a robot.
[0290]
In some examples, a front end portion of application system 1230 operates in user system 1210, for example as a plugin or widget in a graphical user interface of a web application, mobile software application, or as a web browser executing user interface 1212. In an example, a mobile app or a web browser of a user system 1210 transmits a network communication such as an HTTP request over network 1220 in response to user input that is received through a user interface provided by the web application, mobile app, or web browser, such as user interface 1212. A server running application system 1230 receives the input from the web application, mobile app, or browser executing user interface 1212, performs one or more operations using the input, and returns output to the user interface 1212 using a network communication such as an HTTP response, which the web application, mobile app, or browser receives and processes at the user system 1210.
[0291]
In the example of FIG. 12 , an application system 1230 includes an entity graph 1232 and/or a knowledge graph 1234. Entity graph 1232 and/or knowledge graph 1234 include data organized according to graph-based data structures that are searchable or traversable via queries and/or indexes to determine relationships between entities. In some examples, entity graph 1232 and/or knowledge graph 1234 is used to compute various types of relationship weights, affinity scores, similarity measurements, and/or statistics between, among, or relating to entities.
[0292]
Entity graph 1232, knowledge graph 1234 includes a graph-based representation of data stored in data storage system 1260, described herein. For example, entity graph 1232, knowledge graph 1234 represents entities, such as users, organizations (e.g., companies, schools, institutions), content items (e.g., job postings, announcements, articles, comments, and shares), and computing resources (e.g., databases, models, applications, and services), as nodes of a graph. Entity graph 1232, knowledge graph 1234 represents relationships, also referred to as mappings or links, between or among entities as edges, or combinations of edges, between the nodes of the graph. In some examples, mappings between different pieces of data used by an application system 1230 are represented by one or more entity graphs. In some examples, the edges, mappings, or links indicate relationships, online interactions, or activities relating to the entities connected by the edges, mappings, or links. In some examples, if a user clicks on a search result, an edge is created connecting the user entity with the search result entity in the entity graph, where the edge is tagged with a label such as “viewed.” If a user viewing a list of search results skip over a search result without clicking on the search result, an edge is not created between the user entity and the search result entity in the entity graph, in some examples.
[0293]
Portions of entity graph 1232, knowledge graph 1234 are automatically re-generated or updated from time to time based on changes and updates to the stored data, e.g., updates to entity data and/or activity data. In some examples, entity graph 1232, knowledge graph 1234 refers to an entire system-wide entity graph or to only a portion of a system-wide graph. In some examples, entity graph 1232, knowledge graph 1234 refers to a subset of a system-wide graph, where the subset pertains to a particular user or group of users of application system 1230.
[0294]
Knowledge graph 1234 includes a graph-based representation of data stored in data storage system 1260, described herein. Knowledge graph 1234 represents relationships, also referred to as links or mappings, between entities or concepts as edges, or combinations of edges, between the nodes of the graph. In some examples, mappings between different pieces of data used by application system 1230 or across multiple different application systems are represented by the knowledge graph 1234.
[0295]
In some examples, knowledge graph 1234 is a subset or a superset of entity graph 1232. In some examples, knowledge graph 1234 includes multiple different entity graphs 1232 that are joined by cross-application or cross-domain edges. In some examples, knowledge graph 1234 joins entity graphs 1232 that have been created across multiple different databases or across different software products. In some examples, the entity nodes of the knowledge graph 1234 represent concepts, such as product surfaces, verticals, or application domains. In some examples, knowledge graph 1234 includes a platform that extracts and stores different concepts that is used to establish links between data across multiple different software applications. Examples of concepts include topics, industries, and skills. As with other portions of entity graph 1232, knowledge graph 1234 is usable to compute various types of relationship weights, affinity scores, similarity measurements, and/or statistical correlations between or among entities and/or concepts.
[0296]
In the example of FIG. 12 , application system 1230 includes a user connection network 1236. User connection network 1236 includes, for instance, a social network service, professional social network system and/or other social graph-based applications. Content distribution service 1238 includes, for example, a feed, chatbot or chat-style system, or a messaging system, such as a peer-to-peer messaging system that enables the creation and exchange of messages between users of application system 1230 and the application system 1230. Search engine 1240 includes a search engine that enables users of application system 1230 to input and execute search queries to retrieve information from one or more sources of information, such as user connection network 1236, entity graph 1232, knowledge graph 1234, one or more data stores of data storage system 1260, or one or more data resources and tools 1250.
[0297]
In the example of FIG. 12 , application system 1230 includes a content distribution service 1238. The content distribution service 1238 includes a data storage service, such as a web server, which stores digital content items, and transmits digital content items to users via user interface 1212. In some examples, content distribution service 1238 processes requests from, for example, application system 1230 and/or agent system 1280, and distributes digital content items to user systems 1210 in response to requests.
[0298]
A request includes, for example, a network message such as an HTTP (HyperText Transfer Protocol) request for a transfer of data from an application front end to the application's back end, or from the application's back end to the front end, or, more generally, a request for a transfer of data between two different devices or systems, such as data transfers between servers and user systems. A request is formulated, e.g., by a browser or mobile app at a user device, in connection with a user interface event such as a login, click on a graphical user interface element, an input of a search query, or a page load. In some examples, content distribution service 1238 is part of application system 1230. In other examples, content distribution service 1238 interfaces with application system 1230 and/or agent system 1280, for example, via one or more application programming interfaces (APIs).
[0299]
In the example of FIG. 12 , application system 1230 includes a search engine 1240. Search engine 1240 includes a software system designed to search for and retrieve information by executing queries on one or more data stores, such as databases, connection networks, and/or graphs. The queries are designed to find information that matches specified criteria, such as keywords and phrases contained in user input and/or system-generated queries. For example, search engine 1240 is used to retrieve data in response to user input and/or system-generated queries, by executing queries on various data stores of data storage system 1260 and/or data resources and tools 1250, or by traversing entity graph 1232, knowledge graph 1234.
[0300]
Data resources and tools 1250 include computing resources, such as data stores, databases, embedding-based retrieval mechanisms, code generators, etc., that are capable of being used to operate an agent or agent system. Data resources and tools 1250 include computing resources that are internal to application system 1230 or external to application system 1230. Examples of data resources and tools 1250 include entity graphs, knowledge graphs, indexes, databases, networks, applications, models (e.g., large language models and/or other artificial intelligence models or machine learning models), taxonomies, data services, web pages, vectors (e.g., data stores that store embeddings), and searchable digital catalogs. Each data resource or tool 1250 enables an agent or agent system to access the data resource or tool, for example by providing an application programming interface (API). Each data resource or tool 1250 includes a monitoring service that periodically generates, publishes, or broadcasts availability and/or other performance metrics associated with the data resource, in some examples. A data resource or tool 1250 provides a set of APIs that are used by an agent or agent system to access the data resource or tool, obtain output from the data resource, and/or obtain performance metrics for the data resource or tool, in some examples.
[0301]
Data storage system 1260 includes data stores and/or data services that store digital data received, used, manipulated, and produced by application system 1230 and/or agent system 1280, including contextual data, state data, prompts and/or prompt templates for generative artificial intelligence models or large language models, user inputs, system-generated outputs, metadata, attribute data, activity data. Databases or data stores that are capable of being used in some of the described examples include but are not limited to vector databases, graph databases, relational databases, and key-value stores.
[0302]
In the example of FIG. 12 , data storage system 1260 includes various data stores that store, for example, entity data, context data, prompts, embeddings, etc. A data store includes include a volatile memory such as a form of random access memory (RAM) and/or persistent memory, which can be available on user system 1210 or another device (e.g., one or more servers) for storing state data generated at the user system 1210 or an application system 1230. In some examples, a separate, personalized version of each or any data store is created for each user such that data is not shared between or among the separate, personalized versions of the data stores.
[0303]
In some examples, data storage system 1260 includes multiple different types of data storage and/or a distributed data service. In some examples, data service refers to a physical, geographic grouping of machines, a logical grouping of machines, or a single machine. In some examples, a data service includes a data center, a cluster, a group of clusters, or a machine. Data stores of data storage system 1260 are capable of storing data produced by real-time and/or offline (e.g., batch) data processing. A data store configured for real-time data processing is referred to as a real-time data store, in some examples. A data store configured for offline or batch data processing is referred to as an offline data store, in some examples. Data stores are capable of being implemented using databases, such as key-value stores, relational databases, and/or graph databases. Data is written to and read from data stores using query technologies, e.g., SQL or NoSQL.
[0304]
Data storage system 1260 resides on one or more persistent and/or volatile storage devices that reside within the same local network as other devices of computing system 1200 and/or in a network that is remote relative to other devices of computing system 1200. Thus, although depicted as being included in computing system 1200, portions of data storage system 1260 are part of computing system 1200 or accessed by computing system 1200 over a network, such as network 1220, in some examples.
[0305]
Event logging service 1270 captures and records activity data generated during operation of application system 1230 and/or agent system 1280, including user interface events generated at user systems 1210 via user interface 1212, in real time, and formulates the user interface events and/or other network activity data into a data stream that is consumed by, for example, a stream processing system. Examples of network activity data include logins, page loads, dialog inputs, input of search queries or query terms, selections of facets or filters, clicks on search results or graphical user interface control elements, scrolling lists of search results, and social action data such as likes, shares, comments, and social reactions (e.g., “insightful,” “curious,” “like,” etc.). For instance, when a user of application system 1230 via a user system 1210 enters input or clicks on a user interface element, such as a workflow element, or a user interface control element such as a view, comment, share, or reaction button, or uploads a file, or inputs a query, or scrolls through a feed, etc., event logging service 1270 fires an event to capture and store log data including an identifier, such as a session identifier, an event type, a date/timestamp at which the user interface event occurred, and possibly other information about the user interface event, such as the impression portal and/or the impression channel involved in the user interface event. Examples of impression portals and channels include, for example, device types, operating systems, and software platforms, e.g., web applications and mobile applications.
[0306]
For instance, when a user enters input or reacts to system-generated output, such as a list of search results, event logging service 1270 stores the corresponding event data in a log. Event logging service 1270 generates a data stream that includes a record of real-time event data for each user interface event that has occurred. Event data logged by event logging service 1270 is pre-processed and anonymized as needed so that it is capable of being used as context data to, for example, configure one or more instructions for one or more artificial intelligence models (e.g., large language models), or to modify weights, affinity scores, or similarity measurements that are assigned by the agent system to search results or data resources.
[0307]
Agent system 1280 includes any one or more of the components, features, or functions described herein with respect to an automated agent or agent system. For example, agent system 1280 includes components of automated agent 902, automated agent 1012, and/or distributed multi-agent system 905.
[0308]
AI model service 1290 includes one or more artificial intelligence-based models, such as large language models and/or other types of machine learning models including discriminative and/or generative models, neural networks, probabilistic models, statistical models, transformer-based models, and/or any combination of any of the foregoing. AI model service 1290 enables automated agents and agent systems to access to these models, for example by providing one or more application programming interfaces (APIs). AI model service 1290 includes a monitoring service that periodically generates, publishes, or broadcasts latency and/or other performance metrics associated with the models. In some examples, AI model service 1290 provides a set of APIs that are used by an agent or agent system to obtain performance metrics for large language models and/or other machine learning models.
[0309]
While not specifically shown, it should be understood that any of user system 1210, application system 1230, data resources and tools 1250, data storage system 1260, event logging service 1270, agent system 1280, and AI model service 1290 includes an interface embodied as computer programming code stored in computer memory that when executed causes a computing device to enable bidirectional communication with any other of user system 1210, application system 1230, data resources and tools 1250, data storage system 1260, event logging service 1270, agent system 1280, and AI model service 1290 using a communicative coupling mechanism. Examples of communicative coupling mechanisms include network interfaces, inter-process communication (IPC) interfaces and application program interfaces (APIs).
[0310]
Each of user system 1210, application system 1230, data resources and tools 1250, data storage system 1260, event logging service 1270, agent system 1280, and AI model service 1290 is implemented using one or more computing devices that are communicatively coupled to electronic communications network 1220. Any of user system 1210, application system 1230, data resources and tools 1250, data storage system 1260, event logging service 1270, agent system 1280, and AI model service 1290 are capable of being bidirectionally communicatively coupled by network 1220. User system 1210 as well as other different user systems (not shown) are bidirectionally communicatively coupled to application system 1230 and/or agent system 1280, in some examples.
[0311]
Examples of users of user system 1210 include an administrator or end user of application system 1230 or agent system 1280. User system 1210 is configured to communicate bidirectionally with any of application system 1230, data resources and tools 1250, data storage system 1260, event logging service 1270, agent system 1280, and AI model service 1290 over network 1220.
[0312]
Terms such as component, system, and model as used herein refer to computer implemented structures, e.g., combinations of software and hardware such as computer programming logic, data, and/or data structures implemented in electrical circuitry, stored in memory, and/or executed by one or more hardware processors.
[0313]
The features and functionality of user system 1210, application system 1230, data resources and tools 1250, data storage system 1260, event logging service 1270, agent system 1280, and AI model service 1290 are implemented using computer software, hardware, or software and hardware, and include combinations of automated functionality, data structures, and digital data, which are represented schematically in the figures. User system 1210, application system 1230, data resources and tools 1250, data storage system 1260, event logging service 1270, agent system 1280, and AI model service 1290 are shown as separate elements in FIG. 15 for ease of discussion but, except as otherwise described, the illustration is not meant to imply that separation of these elements is required. The illustrated systems, services, and data stores (or their functionality) of each of user system 1210, application system 1230, data resources and tools 1250, data storage system 1260, event logging service 1270, agent system 1280, and AI model service 1290 are capable of being divided over any number of physical systems, including a single physical computer system, and are capable of communicating with each other in any appropriate manner.
[0314]
In the example of FIG. 14 , portions of agent system 1280 that are capable of being implemented on a front end system, such as one or more user systems, and portions of agent system 1280 that are capable of being implemented on a back end system such as one or more servers, are collectively represented as agent system 1450 for ease of discussion only. In some examples, portions of agent system 1280 are not required to be implemented all on the same computing device, in the same memory, or loaded into the same memory at the same time. In some examples, access to portions of agent system 1280 is limited to different, mutually exclusive sets of user systems and/or servers. In some examples, a separate, personalized version of agent system 1280 is created for each user of the agent system 1280 such that data is not shared between or among the separate, personalized versions of the agent system 1280. Certain portions of agent system 1280 are capable of being implemented on user systems while other portions of agent system 1280 are capable of being implemented on a server computer or group of servers. In some examples, one or more portions of agent system 1280 are implemented on user systems. Agent system 1280 is entirely implemented on user systems, e.g., client devices, in some examples. In some examples, a version of agent system 1280 is embedded in a client device's operating system or stored at the client device and loaded into memory at execution time.
[0315]
The examples shown in FIG. 12 and the accompanying description, above are provided for illustration purposes. This disclosure is not limited to the described examples.
[0316]
FIG. 13A is a block diagram of a machine learning modeling system that is capable of being used by and/or included in an agent system in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0317]
Machine learning models are computer-implemented structures that are capable of generating predictive output in response to raw input. A machine learning model includes a probabilistic or statistical algorithm that is configured to perform a specific predictive function through a training process that involves iteratively exposing the models to many samples of data and adjusting one or more model parameters until the models achieve a satisfactory prediction accuracy and reliability. The predictive accuracy and reliability of a machine learning model in relation to a particular task is dependent upon the training process and the data used in the training.
[0318]
Machine learning systems include components and processes that perform data generation, model training, model evaluation (e.g., calibration and validation), and application. Data preparation includes obtaining and aggregating model input data. The preparation of training data includes labeling the aggregated data, in some examples. Training data includes structured data, unstructured data, text, multimodal data, or any combination of any of the foregoing. Model training includes setting values of hyperparameters, determining performance metrics, adjusting weights of the machine learning model in response to the training data, evaluating the performance metrics, and parameter tuning. Application includes applying the trained machine learning model to the real-world environment, e.g., in a specific use case using data not included in the training data (e.g., unlabeled data). The application phase is referred to as inferencing or inference time, in some examples.
[0319]
In FIG. 13A, a machine learning modeling system 1300 includes a machine learning model 1306, a modeling and calibration subsystem 1302, and a model validation subsystem 1304. The machine learning model 1306 is any type or combination of one or more machine learning models, such as any of the types of machine learning models shown in FIG. 13B, FIG. 13C, FIG. 13D, and FIG. 13E and/or any other types or combinations of machine learning models.
[0320]
The modeling and calibration subsystem 1302 receives model input, such as input feature sets, embeddings, digital content, or prompts. The model input is engineered to train the machine learning model 1306 to perform one or more tasks, such as discriminative tasks like classification or scoring and/or generative tasks such as content generation tasks. Modeling and calibration subsystem 1302 includes a data set creation component 1303, a model training component 1305, and a model calibration component 1307.
[0321]
Data set creation component 1303 divides the model input, e.g., input feature sets, into one or more training data sets and one or more validation data sets, e.g., training data set 1309 and validation data set 1311. Model training component 1305 and model calibration component 1307 cooperatively execute a training process. In some examples, the training process causes the machine learning model 1306 to develop, by iterative adjustments to weights or coefficients, a mathematical representation of the relationships between different items of data, such as relationships between different inputs (e.g., similarity estimates or estimates of user preferences), or relationships between inputs and categorical data such as classification labels, or relationships between inputs and outputs. The resulting trained model is used to generate predictive output (e.g., scores, labels, or other output) based on subsequent model input.
[0322]
One or more different approaches are used to train the machine learning model 1306, for example, supervised machine learning, semi-supervised machine learning, or unsupervised machine learning. In supervised machine learning, the set of training data includes indications of expected model output coupled with respective model input; for example, ground-truth labeled data samples. In some examples, an instance of training data for supervised learning includes a model input (e.g., a set of features) and an associated expected output (e.g., a classification label), where the expected output is human curated or machine-generated. In some examples, an instance of training data for supervised machine learning includes a digital image and a title or caption for the image that describes the contents of the image. In unsupervised machine learning, the training examples are unlabeled. In unsupervised machine learning, a machine learning algorithm such as a clustering algorithm is used to identify similarities among data samples and create clusters or groupings of similar data using one or more similarity criteria. In some examples, unsupervised learning is used to group digital content items, such as images, articles, or videos, into topics, where the topics are determined based on the features of the content items themselves rather than supplied by labels. Semi-supervised machine learning combines supervised and unsupervised machine learning, using both labeled and unlabeled data to train machine learning models.
[0323]
Model training component 1305 applies machine learning model 1306 to training data set 1309 iteratively and adjusts the value of one or more model parameters and/or feature coefficients of the machine learning model 1306 based on the processing of the training data set 1309 by the model 1306 until the difference between the predicted model output generated by the machine learning model 1306 and the expected model output evidenced by the training data set 1309 satisfies (e.g., meets or exceeds) model performance criteria 1308. When the model performance criteria 1308 are satisfied, modeling and calibration subsystem 1302 ends the model training process and produces a trained machine learning model 1306.
[0324]
Model validation subsystem 1304 applies a model validation process to the trained machine learning model 1306 produced by modeling and calibration subsystem 1302. Model validation subsystem 1304 uses the validation data set 1311 to determine whether model validation criteria 1310 are satisfied (e.g., met or exceeded). In some examples, the validation data set 1311 is created by setting aside a portion of the training data set 1309 until after training, such that the validation data set 1311 is used to compare and evaluate the difference between the predictive output produced by the trained model to the expected model output evidenced by the set-aside portion of the training data set 1309.
[0325]
A validated machine learning model 1306 is used for inferencing, e.g., to generate predictive output, e.g., labels, scores, or other content, in response to model input. Alternatively or in addition, the output produced by the validated machine learning model 1306 is stored for future use (e.g., for access or lookup by one or more downstream processes, systems, or services).
[0326]
There are many different types and configurations of machine learning models. Illustrative, nonlimiting examples of some of the different types of machine learning models are shown in FIG. 13B, FIG. 13C, FIG. 13D, and FIG. 13E, described below. The Als, models, and AI model services described herein are capable of including or using any of the various types of machine learning models, including but not limited to one or more of the types of models shown in FIG. 13B, FIG. 13C, FIG. 13D, and FIG. 13E.
[0327]
The examples shown in FIG. 13A and the accompanying description, above are provided for illustration purposes. This disclosure is not limited to the described examples.
[0328]
FIG. 13B is a block diagram of a machine learning model that is capable of being used by and/or included in an agent system in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0329]
In the example of FIG. 13B, a machine learning system 1312 includes a machine learning model 1315. Machine learning model 1315 is or includes a probabilistic or statistical machine learning model that uses a modeling function 1316 to model the relationship between model input 1314 (e.g., input feature set X) and model output (e.g., Y, P (Y|X)).
[0330]
In some examples, the machine learning model 1315 is configured as a discriminative model such that the machine learning model 1315 produces output that indicates the probabilistic or statistical likelihood of an output Y given an input X. Some examples of the machine learning model 1315 are alternatively or additionally configured as a generative model. In some examples, a machine learning model performs both discriminative and generative tasks.
[0331]
One illustrative example of a discriminative model is a logistic regression function. Mathematically, a simplified form of the logistic function is capable of being expressed as
P
⁡
(
X
)
=
f
⁡
(
x
)
=
1
1
+
e
-
(
β
0
+
β
1
⁢
x
)
,
where e is the exponential constant and β0 and β1 are feature coefficients. During training of the logistic regression model 1315, logistic regression estimates the values of the coefficients in the linear combination based on the feature values in the training data set. The machine learning model 1315 is configured (e.g., values of model parameters are adjusted) via training, calibration, and validation processes such as those described with reference to FIG. 13A.
[0332]
The machine learning model 1315 includes a modeling function 1316. The modeling function 1316 includes feature coefficients 1317. The values of one or more of the feature coefficients 1317 are established via machine learning model training, calibration, and validation processes based on training data sets and/or validation data sets.
[0333]
In the logistic regression example, the feature coefficients 1317 include a regression coefficient β for each feature input x (e.g., f(i)=β0+β1x1,i+ . . . βmxm,i), where xi is a particular item of the feature set and m is the number of feature inputs x in the input feature set X 1314. The regression coefficient indicates the relative effect of the particular feature input x of the feature set X on the predicted outcome P (Y|X), e.g., a predicted label or score, based on the values of the feature inputs x in the feature set X 1314. The values of the feature coefficients are initialized and adjusted during model training and calibration.
[0334]
The machine learning model 1315 also includes model hyperparameters 1318. The values of hyperparameters 1318 are selected or tuned at a global level and generally are not modified based on specific instances of training data. In the logistic regression example, model hyperparameters 1318 include a penalty or regularization parameter (e.g., L1 or L2) and the C or regularization strength parameter. The penalty or regularization parameter is tunable to adjust model generalization error and regulate overfitting. The C or regularization strength parameter regulates overfitting in conjunction with the penalty. The model hyperparameters 1318 is tuned using, for example, a hyperparameter tuning tool or hyperparameter optimization method.
[0335]
Some examples of the machine learning model 1315 are configured as a binary classifier or as a scoring model. In a binary classification mode, the output of the machine learning model 1315 indicates whether the model input is or is not associated with a certain output (e.g., either 0 if the input is not mathematically likely to be associated with the output or 1 if the input is mathematically likely to be associated with the output), for a given set of input features. In a scoring mode, the output of the machine learning model 1315 includes a score, which corresponds to a probability of the predicted output (e.g., a numerical value between zero and 1, inclusive).
[0336]
The model input 1314 (e.g., input feature set X) includes numerical features, categorical features, quantitative values, qualitative values, raw features, compressed representations of raw features (e.g., vector representations or embeddings, and/or other forms of digital content.
[0337]
In response to an instance of features of feature set X, machine learning model 1315 computes and outputs an estimated output P (Y|X) 1319. The estimated output produced by machine learning model 1315 based on an instance of features of feature set X 1314 is in the form of a binary output or a score, in some examples. The output is stored in a data storage for subsequent lookup or provided to one or more downstream systems, processes, devices, frameworks, and/or services.
[0338]
The machine learning model 1315 is configured and implemented as a network service, in some examples. In some examples, the machine learning model 1315 is configured using a machine learning library and an application programming interface (API), e.g., via an API call such as ML_library.model(p1, p2, . . . pn), where p indicates a parameter or argument of the call, such as a model hyperparameter or an input feature set identifier. Once configured, the machine learning model 1315 and/or its output is hosted on one or more servers and/or data storage devices for accessibility to one or more requesting processes, systems, devices, frameworks, or services.
[0339]
The examples shown in FIG. 13B and the accompanying description, above are provided for illustration purposes. This disclosure is not limited to the described examples.
[0340]
FIG. 13C is a block diagram of a machine learning model that is capable of being used by and/or included in an agent system in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0341]
A generative artificial intelligence (GAI) model or generative model uses artificial intelligence technology, e.g., machine learning, neural networks, to machine-generate digital content based on model inputs and the previously existing data with which the model has been trained. Whereas discriminative models are based on conditional probabilities P (y|x), that is, the probability of an output y given an input x, generative models capture joint probabilities P (x, y), that is, the likelihood of x and y occurring together. A generative language model is a particular type of GAI model that is capable of generating content in response to model input. The model input includes a task description, also referred to as a prompt. The task description includes instructions (e.g., natural language instructions such as “please generate a summary of these search results”) and/or examples of digital content (e.g., examples of summaries written using a particular writing style or tone). Portions of the task description are in the form of natural language text, such as a question or a statement, in some examples. Alternatively or in addition, a task description or prompt includes non-text forms of content, such as digital imagery and/or digital audio.
[0342]
In the example of FIG. 13C, a machine learning system 1320 includes a machine learning model 1324. Machine learning model 1324 is or includes a probabilistic or statistical machine learning model that uses a modeling function to model the likelihood of cooccurrence of input feature set X and output Y; e.g., the likelihood of X and Y occurring together. The machine learning model 1324 is configured via training, calibration, and validation processes such as those described with reference to FIG. 13A. Some examples of the machine learning model 1324 are alternatively or additionally configured as a discriminative model. In some examples, a machine learning model performs both discriminative and generative tasks.
[0343]
The machine learning model 1324 includes a modeling function 1325. The modeling function 1325 includes feature coefficients or weights 1326. The values of one or more of the feature coefficients is established via machine learning model training, calibration, and validation processes based on training data sets and/or validation data sets. The machine learning model 1324 also includes model hyperparameters 1327. The values of model hyperparameters 1327 are selected or tuned at a global level and generally are not modified based on specific instances of training data.
[0344]
The model input 1322 (e.g., input feature set X) includes numerical features, categorical features, quantitative values, qualitative values, raw features, compressed representations of raw features (e.g., vector representations or embeddings), and/or other forms of digital content.
[0345]
In response to an instance of model input 1322 (e.g., instance of feature set X), machine learning model 1324 computes and outputs an estimated output P(X,Y) 1328. The estimated output produced by machine learning model 1324 based on a model input 1322 is in the form of an input-output pair and a score or simply includes the highest scoring input-output pair. In some examples, the output is stored in a data storage for subsequent lookup or provided to one or more downstream systems, processes, devices, frameworks, and/or services.
[0346]
The machine learning model 1324 is configured and implemented as a network service, in some examples. The machine learning model 1324 is configured using a machine learning library and an application programming interface (API), e.g., via an API call such as ML_library.model(p1, p2, . . . pn), where p indicates a parameter or argument of the call, such as a model hyperparameter or an input feature set identifier, in some examples. Once configured, the machine learning model 1324 and/or its output are hosted on one or more servers and/or data storage devices for accessibility to one or more requesting processes, systems, devices, frameworks, or services.
[0347]
The examples shown in FIG. 13C and the accompanying description, above are provided for illustration purposes. This disclosure is not limited to the described examples.
[0348]
FIG. 13D is a block diagram of a machine learning model that is capable of being used by and/or included in an agent system in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0349]
A specific example of a machine learning model is a deep neural network. Some machine learning models, such as multi-task models, include multiple interconnected deep neural networks. In the example of FIG. 13D, a machine learning system 1330 includes a deep neural network 1334. The deep neural network 1334 is configured via training, calibration, and validation processes such as those described with reference to FIG. 13A. Some examples of the deep neural network 1334 are configured as a discriminative model and/or a generative model. In some examples, a deep neural network 1334 performs both discriminative and generative tasks.
[0350]
In computer science, deep learning refers to a class of machine learning that uses computer-implemented neural networks to generate predictive output, where the neural networks have one or more internal (or hidden) layers between and in addition to an input layer and an output layer. Each layer in a deep neural network (or deep learning model) performs a set of computational operations on the input to that layer.
[0351]
Each layer of the neural network includes a set of nodes that each apply an activation function to one or more portions of the input to that layer to produce an output. The activation function performs a nonlinear transformation of the input and sends its output to the next layer of the network. For example, if the output of the activation function is equal to or exceeds a threshold value, the node passes its output to the next layer, but if the output is less than the threshold value, the output passed to the next layer is zero or a null value. The type of activation function used at a node or layer is selected based on the particular predictive task for which the model is configured and/or based on the model architecture. Examples of activation functions include the SoftMax function (for multi-class classification), the sigmoid function (for internal layers), and rectifier functions (e.g., ramp, or Rectified Linear Unit (ReLU)).
[0352]
The input layer of a deep neural network receives and processes the model input, which includes raw data and/or pre-processed data such as aggregations, derivations, embeddings or vector representations of raw data. In some examples, the output of a layer of the neural network is connected to and used as the input to one or more other layers, such that each layer of the deep learning model creates a different (e.g., progressively more highly processed) set of information relating to the original, raw input (e.g., producing a different representation of the raw input at each layer). Weights are applied to the output of each node of each layer before the output is propagated to the next layer. The weight values are adjusted so that the outputs of some nodes or layers influences the final output more or less than the outputs of other nodes or layers, in some examples. The output layer of the neural network produces the final predictive output, which is made accessible to one or more downstream models, applications, systems, operations, processes or services.
[0353]
Backpropagation is an example of a method that is often used to train a neural network model. In a feedforward step, the training data is propagated from the input layer through the internal layers to the final output by computing each successive layer's outputs up to and including the final output. A loss function (or cost function, such as cross-entropy, log loss, or squared error loss, or a logistic function) is used to compute error for the final output, for example, based on a comparison of the difference between the output predicted by the model and the expected or target output to the error computed on a previous iteration. The model weights (or parameters or coefficients) are adjusted to reduce the error, iteratively, until the error falls within an acceptable range or the error stops changing by more than a threshold amount (e.g., the model converges). In backpropagation, these iterative weight adjustments are propagated backward from the output layer through the internal layers. The gradient of the loss function or gradient descent (e.g., stochastic gradient descent) is often used in backpropagation.
[0354]
In some examples, recommendation systems use deep learning models to generate predictive output and use the predictive output to configure or control one or more downstream operations. In some examples, recommendation systems compute statistical or probabilistic predictions that are used to select, rank, or sort digital content items for presentation to users via electronic devices. Examples of downstream operations that are capable of using the predictive output of deep learning recommendation systems include news feeds, automated product recommendations, and automated connection (e.g., friend, follower, or contact) recommendations for online platforms such as social networks. Other examples include systems that support human decision making, such as systems that use artificial intelligence to generate recommendations for health care, financial services, training, education, and/or other fields or topics. Still other examples include control systems that use artificial intelligence to recommend courses of action to other components of automated systems in operational environments, such as “smart” vehicles, appliances, robots, and other automated devices.
[0355]
In the example of FIG. 13D, the deep neural network 1334 includes an input layer 1335, one or more hidden layers 1336, and an output layer 1337. The input layer 1335 receives one or more batches of model input 1323 (e.g., input feature sets X). In some examples, the input layer 1335 includes a number of nodes that corresponds to the number of input features in a given input feature set X. The output of the input layer 1335 becomes the input to the one or more hidden layers 1336. The output of the one or more hidden layers 1336 becomes the input to the output layer 1337. The output layer 1337 outputs the final predictive output 1338. In some examples, each of the layers of the deep neural network 1334 is fully connected in the sense that the output of each node of each layer is connected to the input of each node of the next subsequent layer. In other examples, the deep neural network 1334 includes portions that are not fully connected.
[0356]
The deep neural network 1334 is capable of being configured and implemented as a network service. In some examples, the deep neural network 1334 is configured using a machine learning library and an application programming interface (API), e.g., via an API call such as ML_library.model(p1, p2, . . . pn), where p indicates a parameter or argument of the call, such as a model hyperparameter or an input feature set identifier. Once configured, the deep neural network 1334 and/or its output are hosted on one or more servers and/or data storage devices for accessibility to one or more requesting processes, systems, devices, frameworks, or services.
[0357]
The input feature set X includes numerical features, categorical features, quantitative values, qualitative values, raw features, compressed representations of raw features (e.g., vector representations or embeddings), natural language, and/or other forms of digital content. Embedding refers to a numerical representation of a set of features, in some examples. An embedding encodes information, e.g., a set of features associated with an entity and/or attribute, relative to an embedding space. Embeddings and embedding spaces are generated by artificial intelligence (AI) models. An embedding is often expressed as a vector, where each dimension of the vector includes a numerical value that is an integer or a real number (e.g., a floating point value). The numerical value assigned to a given dimension of the vector conveys information about the data represented by the embedding, relative to the embedding space, also referred to as a vector space. The embedding space (or vector space) includes all of the possible values of each dimension of the vector. The embedding space is defined by the way in which the AI model used to generate the vector has been trained and configured, including the training data used to train the AI model. In some examples, train as used herein refers to an iterative process of applying an AI algorithm to one or more sets of training data, analyzing the output of the AI model in comparison to expected model output using a loss function (also referred to as a cost function or error function), adjusting values of one or more parameters and/or coefficients of the AI model, and repeating the process until the difference between the actual model output and the expected model output falls within an acceptable range of error or tolerance.
[0358]
Embedding-based retrieval (EBR) is a method of searching for similar digital content, such as documents or portions of documents. Embedding-based retrieval involves converting digital data, e.g., sets of features, to embeddings and then using a similarity algorithm, such as nearest-neighbor search or cosine similarity, to identify embeddings that are similar to one another. Match or map refers to an exact match or an inexact match, in various examples. Match or map refers to a machine-determined predicted or estimated degree of relevance, similarity or compatibility between entities or data items that satisfies (e.g., meets or exceeds) a threshold level of relevance, similarity or compatibility, where the threshold level of relevance, similarity or compatibility is variable based on the requirements of a particular design or implementation. The threshold level of relevance, similarity, or compatibility is set lower or higher for different types of matching or mapping, in some examples.
[0359]
In response to an instance of feature set X, deep neural network 1334 computes and outputs a predictive output 1338. The predictive output 1338 is stored in a data storage for subsequent lookup or provided to one or more downstream systems, processes, devices, frameworks, and/or services.
[0360]
The deep neural network 1334 is configured and implemented as a network service, in some examples. The deep neural network 1334 is configured using a machine learning library and an application programming interface (API), e.g., via an API call such as ML_library.model(p1, p2, . . . pn), where p indicates a parameter or argument of the call, such as a model hyperparameter or an input feature set identifier, in some examples. Once configured, the machine learning model 1306 and/or its output are hosted on one or more servers and/or data storage devices for accessibility to one or more requesting processes, systems, devices, frameworks, or services.
[0361]
The examples shown in FIG. 13D and the accompanying description, above are provided for illustration purposes. This disclosure is not limited to the described examples.
[0362]
FIG. 13E is a block diagram of a machine learning model that is capable of being used by and/or included in an agent system in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0363]
A specific example of a deep neural network is a sequence to sequence model, which takes sequential data such as words, phrases, or images (sequences of characters, tokens, or pixel values) or time series data as input and outputs sequential data. An example of a sequence to sequence model is an encoder-decoder model. In an encoder-decoder model, a first neural network known as an encoder transforms the model input into an encoded version of the model input, e.g., an embedding or vector. In some examples, an encoder transforms a sentence or an image into a sequence of numbers. A second neural network known as the decoder takes the output of the encoder (e.g., the encoded version of the model input) and decodes it. In some examples, a decoder transforms the sequence of numbers created and output by the encoder into a translated sentence or another form of output.
[0364]
A specific example of an encode-decoder model is a transformer model. A transformer model is a deep neural network encoder-decoder model that uses a technique called attention or self-attention to detect relationships and dependencies among data elements in a sequence. Transformer models are capable of being used to perform various natural language processing (NLP) tasks and other machine learning tasks, such as generating content based on input attributes or tokens. In some examples, the attention mechanism facilitates the detection of relationships and dependencies between words and phrases.
[0365]
In the example of FIG. 13E, a machine learning system 1340 includes a transformer model 1342. The transformer model 1342 is constructed using a neural network-based machine learning model architecture. In some examples, the neural network-based architecture includes one or more self-attention layers (e.g., multi-head attention layer 1345, masked multi-head attention layer 1355, and multi-head attention layer 1357) that allow the model to assign different weights to different features included in the model input. Alternatively, or in addition, the neural network architecture includes feed-forward layers (e.g., feed-forward layer 1347 and feed-forward layer 1359) and residual connections (e.g., add & norm layer 1346, add & norm layer 1348, add & norm layer 1356, add & norm layer 1358, add & norm layer 1360) that allow the model to machine-learn complex data patterns including relationships between different states, actions, and rewards in multiple different contexts. In some examples, transformer model 1342 is constructed using a transformer-based architecture that includes self-attention layers, feed-forward layers, and residual connections between the layers. The exact number and arrangement of layers of each type as well as the hyperparameter values used to configure the model are determined based on the requirements of a particular design or implementation of the user trajectory processing system.
[0366]
As shown in FIG. 13E, transformer model 1342 feeds embedded subsequences 1350 into encoder 1344 and decoder 1354. For example, transformer model 1342 feeds inputs of embedded subsequences 1350 into multi-head attention layer 1345 of encoder 1344. In some examples, inputs of embedded subsequences 1350 are a series of tokens and the output of the encoder (e.g., encoder output representation 1352), is a fixed-dimensional representation for each of the tokens of embedded subsequences 1350 including an embedding for inputs of embedded subsequences 1350. Transformer model 1342 feeds encoder output representation 1352 and outputs of embedded subsequences 1350 into decoder 1354 which generates a sequence of tokens based on encoder output representation 1352 and the input embeddings. While a specific architecture of encoder 1344 and decoder 1354 is shown for simplicity, as explained above, the exact number and arrangement of layers of each type as well as the hyperparameter values used to configure the model are determined based on the requirements of a particular design or implementation. Therefore, in some examples, transformer model 1342 includes different numbers, arrangements, and types of layers, such that each input token of embedded subsequences 1350 is fed through the layers of transformer model 1342 and is dependent on other input tokens of embedded subsequences 1350.
[0367]
Transformer model 1342 illustrates a generic encoder/decoder model for simplicity. In such a model, encoder 1344 encodes the input into a fixed-length vector (e.g., encoder output representation 1352) and decoder 1354 decodes the fixed-length vector into an output sequence. Encoder 1344 and decoder 1354 are trained together to maximize the conditional log-likelihood of the output given the input. Once trained, encoder 1344 and decoder 1354 are capable of generating output given an input sequence or scoring a pair of input-output sequences based on their probability of coexistence.
[0368]
As shown in FIG. 13E, encoder 1344 includes multi-head attention layer 1345, add & norm layer 1346, feed-forward layer 1347, and add & norm layer 1348. Multi-head attention layer 1345 receives inputs of embedded subsequences 1350 and computes output representations for each of the input tokens of embedded subsequences 1350 based on the inputs of embedded subsequences 1350. For example, multi-head attention layer 1345 converts each input token of embedded subsequences 1350 into queries, keys, and values using query, key, and value matrices. Multi-head attention layer 1345 computes the output representation of the input tokens of embedded subsequences 1350 as the weighted sum of the values of all of the input tokens of embedded subsequences 1350. Multi-head attention layer 1345 computes the weights for the weighted sum by applying a compatibility function to the corresponding key and query for the value. For example, multi-head attention layer 1345 uses a scaled dot product on the key and query of an input token to determine a weight to apply to a value of the input token. Multi-head attention layer 1345 includes multiple attention blocks which each compute an output representation for the input token. Multi-head attention layer 1345 aggregates the output representations of these attention blocks to generate a final output representation for multi-head attention layer 1345.
[0369]
Transformer model 1342 feeds the output representation generated by multi-head attention layer 1345 and residual connections from the inputs of embedded subsequences 1350 into add & norm layer 1346. By including these residual connections, transformer model 1342 ensures that it does not “forget” features of embedded subsequences 1350 during training. Forgetting in the context of machine learning refers to a phenomenon that occurs as the model continues to be sequentially trained on different datasets over time. Because the model continually adjusts the values of feature coefficients as it is trained on subsequent training datasets, these continuous adjustments of the feature coefficient values is capable of causing the influence of the datasets used earlier in training on those coefficient values to be lost or diluted.
[0370]
Add & norm layer 1346 sums the output representation generated by multi-head attention layer 1345 and the residual connections from inputs of embedded subsequences 1350 and applies a layer normalization to the result. In some examples, the add & normal layers also apply a SoftMax function to generate action probabilities for the inputs of embedded subsequences 1350. For example, add & norm layer 1346 generates estimated probabilities {circumflex over (p)}(ak|s), where ak is the action policy and s is the state features.
[0371]
Transformer model 1342 feeds the normalized output of add & norm layer 1346 into feed-forward layer 1347. Feed-forward layer 1347 is a feed-forward network that receives the normalized output, feeds it through the hidden layers of feed-forward layer 1347, and then feeds the output of feed-forward layer 1347 into add & norm layer 1348. Feed-forward layer 1347 processes the information received from add & norm layer 1346 and updates the hidden layers of feed-forward layer 1347 based on the information (e.g., during training) and/or generate an output based on the hidden layers processing the information (e.g., during evaluation and/or inference). For example, during training, transformer model 1342 updates the weights of the hidden layers of feed-forward layer 1347 based on the inputs and the loss of the transformer system. Further details with regard to the loss of the transformer system as well as training objectives and metrics are discussed below. As an alternative example, during evaluation and/or inference, the weights of the hidden layers of feed-forward layer 1347 are used to determine the output representation 1352 of each of the input tokens of embedded subsequences 1350.
[0372]
Transformer model 1342 feeds the output of feed-forward layer 1347 into add & norm layer 1348 as well as residual connections from the output of add & norm layer 1346. Add & norm layer 1348 sums the output of feed-forward layer 1347 with the residual connections from add & norm layer 1346 and applies a layer normalization to the result to generate encoder output representation 1352. Transformer model 1342 feeds encoder output representation 1352 into multi-head attention layer 1357 of decoder 1354 as explained below.
[0373]
Masked multi-head attention layer 1355 receives outputs of embedded subsequences 1350 and computes representations for each of the output tokens of embedded subsequences 1350 based on masked outputs of embedded subsequences 1350. For example, masked multi-head attention layer 1355 computes representations for each of the output tokens of embedded subsequences 1350 based on previous output tokens while masking future output tokens. Masked multi-head attention layer 1355 therefore only computes representations using tokens that come before the token masked multi-head attention layer 1355 is trying to predict.
[0374]
Transformer model 1342 feeds the representation generated by masked multi-head attention layer 1355 and residual connections from the outputs of embedded subsequences 1350 into add & norm layer 1356. Add & norm layer 1356 sums the representation generated by masked multi-head attention layer 1355 and the residual connections from outputs of embedded subsequences 1350 and applies a layer normalization to the result.
[0375]
Transformer model 1342 feeds the normalized output of add & norm layer 1356 into multi-head attention layer 1357. Multi-head attention layer 1357 receives the normalized output of add & norm layer 1356 as well as encoder output representation 1352 from encoder 1344 and generates a representation based on both.
[0376]
Transformer model 1342 feeds the representation generated by multi-head attention layer 1357 and residual connections from the output of add & norm layer 1356 into add & norm layer 1358. Add & norm layer 1358 sums the representation generated by multi-head attention layer 1357 and the residual connections from the output of add & norm layer 1356 and applies a layer normalization to the result.
[0377]
Transformer model 1342 feeds the normalized output of add & norm layer 1358 into feed-forward layer 1359. Feed-forward layer 1359 is a feed-forward network that receives the normalized output, feeds it through the hidden layers of feed-forward layer 1359, and then feeds the output of feed-forward layer 1359 into add & norm layer 1369. Feed-forward layer 1359 processes the information received from add & norm layer 1358 and updates the hidden layers of feed-forward layer 1359 based on the information (e.g., during training) and/or generate an output based on the hidden layers processing the information (e.g., during evaluation and/or inference). For example, during training, transformer model 1342 updates the weights of the hidden layers of feed-forward layer 1359 based on the inputs and the loss of the transformer system. Further details with regard to the loss of the transformer system as well as training objectives and metrics are discussed below. As an alternative example, during evaluation and/or inference, the weights of the hidden layers of feed-forward layer 1359 are used to determine the output of feed-forward layer 1359.
[0378]
Transformer model 1342 feeds the output of feed-forward layer 1359 into add & norm layer 1360 as well as residual connections from the output of add & norm layer 1358. Add & norm layer 1360 sums the output of feed-forward layer 1359 with the residual connections from add & norm layer 1358 and applies a layer normalization to the result to generate an output.
[0379]
Transformer model 1342 generates output probabilities 1362 from the output of add & norm layer 1360. For example, transformer model 1342 applies a linear transformation and a SoftMax function to the output of add & norm layer 1360 to generate a normalized vector of output probabilities 1362.
[0380]
In some examples, such as during training, transformer model 1342 determines a loss for the system based on output probabilities 1362. In some examples, transformer model 1342 uses deep quantile regression for training. In such an example, output probabilities 1362 includes a mean prediction probability and estimations for the upper and lower bounds of the range of prediction such that output probabilities 626 includes an uncertainty range. In one example, the loss function of transformer model 1342 using deep quantile regression is represented by the following equation:
ℒ
⁡
(
ξ
i
⁢
❘
α
)
=
{
α
⁢
ξ
i
⁢
if
⁢
ξ
i
≥
0
,
(
α
-
1
)
⁢
ξ
i
⁢
if
⁢
ξ
i
<
0
,
where α is the required quantile (a value between 0 and 1 representing the desired quantile) and ξi=yi−f(xi), where f(xi) is the mean predicted by output probabilities 1362, yi are the outputs of embedded subsequences 1350 and xi are the inputs of embedded subsequences 1350. The loss over the entirety of a dataset of embedded subsequences 1350 where embedded subsequences 1350 has a length of N is capable of being represented by the following equation:
ℒ
⁡
(
y
,
f
⁢
❘
α
)
=
1
N
⁢
∑
i
=
1
N
⁢
ℒ
⁡
(
y
i
-
f
⁡
(
x
i
)
⁢
❘
α
)
.
In such examples, output probabilities 1362 includes three values: a mean prediction, a lower bound quantile, and an upper bound quantile. In some examples, transformer model 1342 uses upper confidence bound or Thompson sampling. In some examples, transformer model 1342 determines model output 1364 based on the mean prediction, the lower bound quantile, and the upper bound quantile based on upper confidence bound and/or Thompson sampling.
[0381]
In some examples, transformer model 1342 is trained to optimize the model parameters with trajectory-specific normalizations using cross-entropy loss. For example, transformer model 1342 uses a loss function represented by the following equation:
L
⁡
(
θ
)
=
1
N
traj
⁢
∑
i
N
traj
⁢
∑
t
=
1
T
i
⁢
w
i
⁢
∑
k
⁢
log
⁡
(
p
ˆ
(
a
k
(
i
⁢
t
)
⁢
❘
s
(
i
⁢
t
)
)
)
,
where Ntraj is the trajectory count, wi is the normalization weight, ak (it) is the predicted action for the trajectory i at timestep t, and s(it) is the state of the online system for the trajectory i at timestep t. In some examples, transformer model 1342 uses trajectory-wise normalization. In some examples, the add & norm layers of transformer model 1342 normalize the weights according to the following equation:
w
i
=
1
T
i
,
where Ti is the length of trajectory i. In some examples, transformer model 1342 uses global normalization. In some examples, the add & norm layers of transformer model 1342 normalize the weights according to the following equation: wi=c, where c is a positive scalar. In some examples, the scalar c is predetermined.
[0382]
Language models, including large language models and other generative models, are capable of being implemented using transformer models. A generative model is commonly constructed using a neural network-based machine learning model architecture. In some examples, the neural network-based architecture includes one or more input layers that receive task descriptions (or prompts), generate one or more embeddings based on the task descriptions, and pass the one or more embeddings to one or more other layers of the neural network. In other examples, the one or more embedding are generated based on the task description by a pre-processor, the embeddings are input to the generative language model, and the generative language model outputs digital content, e.g., natural language text or a combination of natural language text and non-text output, based on the embeddings.
[0383]
The neural network-based machine learning model architecture of the generative model often includes one or more self-attention layers that allow the model to assign different weights to different portions of the model input (e.g., different words or phrases included in the model input). Alternatively or in addition, the neural network architecture includes feed-forward layers and residual connections that allow the model to machine-learn complex data patterns including relationships between different words or phrases in multiple different contexts. The language model or other type of generative model is capable of being constructed using a transformer-based architecture that includes self-attention layers, feed-forward layers, and residual connections between the layers. The exact number and arrangement of layers of each type as well as the hyperparameter values used to configure the model are determined based on the requirements of a particular design or implementation.
[0384]
In some examples, the neural network-based machine learning model architecture of a generative model includes or is based on one or more generative transformer models, one or more generative pre-trained transformer (GPT) models, one or more bidirectional encoder representations from transformers (BERT) models, one or more large language models (LLMs), one or more XLNet models, and/or one or more other natural language processing (NL) models that significantly advance the state-of-the-art in various linguistic tasks such as machine translation, sentiment analysis, question answering and sentence similarity. In some examples, the neural network-based machine learning model architecture includes or is based on one or more predictive content neural models that receive digital content input and generate one or more outputs based on processing the digital content with one or more neural network models. Examples of predictive neural models include, but are not limited to, Generative Pre-Trained Transformers (GPT), BERT, and/or Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs). In some examples, one or more types of neural network-based machine learning model architecture includes or is based on one or more multimodal neural networks capable of outputting different modalities (e.g., text, image, sound, etc.) separately and/or in combination based on digital content input. Accordingly, in some examples, a multimodal neural network is capable of outputting digital content that includes a combination of two or more of text, images, video or sound.
[0385]
A generative language model is capable of being trained on a large dataset of natural language text. In some examples, training samples of natural language text extracted from publicly available data sources are used to train a generative language model. The size and composition of the dataset used to train the generative language model are variable according to the requirements of a particular design or implementation. In some examples, the dataset used to train the generative language model includes hundreds of thousands to millions or more different natural language text training samples. In some examples, a generative language model includes multiple generative language models trained on differently sized datasets. In some examples, a generative language model includes a comprehensive but low capacity model that is trained on a large data set and used for generating examples. The same generative language model also includes a less comprehensive but high capacity model that is trained on a smaller data set, such that the high capacity model is used to generate outputs based on data obtained from the low capacity model. In some examples, reinforcement learning is used to further improve the output of the generative language model. In reinforcement learning, ground-truth examples of desired model output are paired with respective prompts, and these prompt-output pairs are used to train or fine tune the generative language model.
[0386]
Prompt engineering is a technique used to optimize the structure and/or content of a prompt input to a generative model. Some prompts include examples of outputs to be generated by the generative model (e.g., few-shot prompts), while other prompts include no examples of outputs to be generated by the generative model (e.g., zero-shot prompts). Chain of thought prompting is a prompt engineering technique where the prompt includes a request that the model explain reasoning in the output. For example, the generative model performs the task described in the prompt using a series of steps and outputs reasoning as to each step performed.
[0387]
Supervised learning is a method of training (or fine-tuning) a machine learning model given input-output pairs, where the output of the input-output pair is known (e.g., an expected output, a labeled output, a ground truth). Other training methods including semi-supervised learning or federated learning are capable of being used to train a machine learning model or to fine-tune a pretrained machine learning model.
[0388]
To train or fine tune a language model, a prompt is provided as input to the machine learning model. The prompt includes natural language instructions, queries, examples, etc. The machine learning model generates output by applying the weights and nodes of the machine learning model to the prompt. Error is determined by comparing the model output to a reference or expected output over many iterations. For example, changes in the similarity between the model output and the expected output are evaluated over time using a similarity metric or model performance metric. The error is used to adjust the value of weights in a weight matrix included in the machine learning model and/or to adjust the number of layers and/or arrangement of layers included in the machine learning model until an acceptable level of error is achieved.
[0389]
A machine learning model is trained using a backpropagation algorithm, in some examples. The backpropagation algorithm operates by propagating the error through each of the algorithmic weights of the machine learning model such that the algorithmic weights are adjusted based on the amount of error. The error is calculated at each iteration, batch, and/or epoch. The error is computed using a loss function. An example loss function includes the cross-entropy error function. After a number of training iterations, the machine learning model iteratively converges, e.g., adjusts weight values over time until the model output achieves an acceptable level of accuracy or reliability (e.g., accuracy satisfies a defined tolerance or confidence level). The values of the weights of the trained model (e.g., after convergence) are stored such that the machine learning model is capable of being deployed during inference time.
[0390]
The machine learning model 1342 is configured and implemented as a network service, in some examples. The machine learning model 1332 is configured using a machine learning library and an application programming interface (API), e.g., via an API call such as ML_library.model(p1, p2, . . . pn), where p indicates a parameter or argument of the call, such as a model hyperparameter or an input identifier. Once configured, the machine learning model 1342 and/or its output are hosted on one or more servers and/or data storage devices for accessibility to one or more requesting processes, systems, devices, frameworks, or services.
[0391]
The examples shown in FIG. 13E and the accompanying description, above are provided for illustration purposes. This disclosure is not limited to the described examples.
[0392]
FIG. 14 is a block diagram of an example computer system including components of an agent system in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0393]
In FIG. 14 , an example machine of a computer system 1400 is shown, within which a set of instructions for causing the machine to perform any of the methodologies discussed herein are capable of being executed. In some examples, the computer system 1400 corresponds to a component of a networked computer system (e.g., any one or more of the components shown in FIG. 1 , FIG. 3 , FIG. 4 , FIG. 6 , FIG. 9 , or FIG. 12 ) that includes, is coupled to, or utilizes a machine to execute an operating system to perform operations corresponding to any one or more components shown in FIG. 1 , FIG. 3 , FIG. 4 , FIG. 6 , FIG. 9 , or FIG. 12 . For example, computer system 1400 corresponds to a portion of a computing system when the computing system is executing a portion of any one or more components shown in FIG. 1 , FIG. 3 , FIG. 4 , FIG. 6 , FIG. 9 , or FIG. 12 .
[0394]
The machine is connected (e.g., networked) to other machines in a network, such as a local area network (LAN), an intranet, an extranet, and/or the Internet. The machine operates in the capacity of a server or a client machine in a client-server network environment, as a peer machine in a peer-to-peer (or distributed) network environment, or as a server or a client machine in a cloud computing infrastructure or environment.
[0395]
The machine is a personal computer (PC), a smart phone, a tablet PC, a set-top box (STB), a Personal Digital Assistant (PDA), a cellular telephone, a web appliance, a wearable device, a server, or any machine capable of executing a set of instructions (sequential or otherwise) that specify actions to be taken by that machine. Further, while a single machine is illustrated, the term “machine” includes any collection of machines that individually or jointly execute a set (or multiple sets) of instructions to perform any of the methodologies discussed herein.
[0396]
The example computer system 1400 includes a processing device 1402, a main memory 1404 (e.g., read-only memory (ROM), flash memory, dynamic random access memory (DRAM) such as synchronous DRAM (SDRAM) or Rambus DRAM (RDRAM), etc.), a memory 1403 (e.g., flash memory, static random access memory (SRAM), etc.), an input/output system 1410, and a data storage system 1440, which communicate with each other via a bus 1430.
[0397]
Processing device 1402 represents one or more general-purpose processing devices such as a microprocessor, a central processing unit, or the like. In some examples, the processing device is a complex instruction set computing (CISC) microprocessor, reduced instruction set computing (RISC) microprocessor, very long instruction word (VLIW) microprocessor, or a processor implementing other instruction sets, or processors implementing a combination of instruction sets. In some examples, processing device 1402 includes a special-purpose processing device such as an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), a field programmable gate array (FPGA), a digital signal processor (DSP), network processor, or the like. The processing device 1402 is to execute instructions 1412 for performing the operations and steps discussed herein.
[0398]
In some examples of FIG. 14 , agent system 1450 represents portions of automated agent 902 or distributed multi-agent system 905 or agent system 1280 while the computer system 1400 is executing those portions of automated agent 902 or distributed multi-agent system 905 or agent system 1280. Instructions 1412 include portions of agent system 1450 when those portions of the agent system 1450 are being executed by processing device 1402. Thus, the agent system 1450 is shown in dashed lines as part of instructions 1412 to illustrate that, at times, portions of the agent system 1450 are executed by processing device 1402. For example, when at least some portion of the agent system 1450 is embodied in instructions to cause processing device 1402 to perform the method(s) described herein, some of those instructions are read into processing device 1402 (e.g., into an internal cache or other memory) from main memory 1404 and/or data storage system 1440. In some examples, it is not required that all of the agent system 1450 be included in instructions 1412 at the same time and portions of the agent system 1450 are stored in another component of computer system 1400 at other times, e.g., when a portion of the agent system 1450 is not being executed by processing device 1402.
[0399]
The computer system 1400 further includes a network interface device 1408 to communicate over the network 1420. Network interface device 1408 provides a two-way data communication coupling to a network. In some examples, network interface device 1408 includes an integrated-services digital network (ISDN) card, cable modem, satellite modem, or a modem to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some examples, network interface device 1408 includes a local area network (LAN) card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links are included, in some examples. Network interface device 1408 sends and receives electrical, electromagnetic, or optical signals that carry digital data representing various types of information.
[0400]
The network link is capable of providing data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. In some examples, a network link provides a connection to the world-wide packet data communication network commonly referred to as the “Internet,” for example through a local network to a host computer or to data equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider (ISP). Local networks and the Internet use electrical, electromagnetic, or optical signals that carry digital data to and from computer system computer system 1400.
[0401]
Computer system 1400 is capable of sending messages and receiving data, including program code, through the network(s) and network interface device 1408. In some examples, a server is capable of transmitting a requested code for an application program through the Internet and network interface device 1408. The received code is executed by processing device 1402 as it is received, and/or stored in data storage system 1440 or other non-volatile storage for later execution.
[0402]
The input/output system 1410 includes an output device, such as a display, for example a liquid crystal display (LCD) or a touchscreen display, for displaying information to a computer user, or a speaker, a haptic device, or another form of output device. The input/output system 1410 includes an input device, for example, alphanumeric keys and other keys configured for communicating information and command selections to processing device 1402. An input device sometimes includes a cursor control, such as a mouse, a trackball, or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to processing device 1402 and for controlling cursor movement on a display. An input device sometimes includes a microphone, a sensor, or an array of sensors, for communicating sensed information to processing device 1402. Examples of sensed information include voice commands, audio signals, geographic location information, haptic information, and/or digital imagery, for example.
[0403]
The data storage system 1440 includes a machine-readable storage medium 1442 (also known as a computer-readable medium) on which is stored instructions 1444 or software embodying any of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions 1444 sometimes reside, completely or at least partially, within the main memory 1404 and/or within the processing device 1402 during execution thereof by the computer system 1400, the main memory 1404 and the processing device 1402 also constituting machine-readable storage media. In one example, the instructions 1444 include instructions to implement functionality corresponding to an automated agent or agent system (e.g., any one or more of the components shown in any one or more components shown in FIG. 1 , FIG. 3 , FIG. 4 , FIG. 6 , and/or portions of computing system 900 of FIG. 9 or agent system 1280 of FIG. 12 ).
[0404]
Dashed lines are used in FIG. 14 to indicate that it is not required that the agent system be embodied entirely in instructions 1412, 1414, and 1444 at the same time. In one example, portions of the agent system are embodied in instructions 1414, which are read into main memory 1404 as instructions 1414, and portions of instructions 1412 are read into processing device 1402 as instructions 1412 for execution. In another example, some portions of the agent system are embodied in instructions 1444 while other portions are embodied in instructions 1414 and still other portions are embodied in instructions 1412.
[0405]
While the machine-readable storage medium 1442 is shown in an example to be a single medium, the term “machine-readable storage medium” should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media that store the instructions. The term “machine-readable storage medium” shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing or encoding a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any of the methodologies of the present disclosure. The term “machine-readable storage medium” shall accordingly be taken to include, but not be limited to, solid-state memories, optical media, and magnetic media.
[0406]
The examples shown in FIG. 14 and the accompanying description, above are provided for illustration purposes. This disclosure is not limited to the described examples.
[0407]
Some portions of the preceding detailed description have been presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the ways used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work most effectively to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here, and generally, conceived to be a self-consistent sequence of operations leading to a desired result. The operations are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually, though not necessarily, these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored, combined, compared, and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times, principally for reasons of common usage, to refer to these signals as bits, values, elements, symbols, characters, terms, numbers, or the like.
[0408]
It should be borne in mind, however, that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. The present disclosure refers to actions and processes of a computer system, or similar electronic computing device, which manipulates and transforms data represented as physical (electronic) quantities within the computer system's registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage systems.
[0409]
The present disclosure also relates to an apparatus for performing the operations described herein. This apparatus is specially constructed for the intended purposes, in some examples. In other examples, the apparatus includes a general-purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. In some examples, a computer system or other data processing system including any one or more of the components shown in FIG. 1 , FIG. 2A-2C, FIG. 3 , FIG. 4 , FIG. 6 , FIG. 9 , FIG. 10 , FIG. 11A-11B, FIG. 12 , and/or FIG. 13A-13E, carries out the above-described computer-implemented methods in response to its processor executing a computer program (e.g., a sequence of instructions) contained in a memory or other non-transitory machine-readable storage medium. Such a computer program is be stored in a computer readable storage medium, such as, but not limited to, any type of disk including floppy disks, optical disks, CD-ROMs, and magnetic-optical disks, read-only memories (ROMs), random access memories (RAMs), EPROMs, EEPROMs, magnetic or optical cards, or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions, each coupled to a computer system bus.
[0410]
The algorithms and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general-purpose systems are capable of being used. A more specialized apparatus is constructed, in some examples. Examples of structure for these systems are provided in the description. Aspects of this disclosure are not limited to any particular programming language. A variety of programming languages are usable to implement the various aspects of this disclosure.
[0411]
Some examples of the present disclosure are provided as a computer program product, or software, which includes a machine-readable medium having stored thereon instructions, which is used to program a computer system (or other electronic devices) to perform a process according to the present disclosure. A machine-readable medium includes any mechanism for storing information in a form readable by a machine (e.g., a computer). In some examples, a machine-readable (e.g., computer-readable) medium includes a machine (e.g., a computer) readable storage medium such as a read only memory (“ROM”), random access memory (“RAM”), magnetic disk storage media, optical storage media, flash memory components, etc.
[0412]
The techniques described herein are capable of being implemented with privacy safeguards to protect user privacy. Furthermore, the techniques described herein are capable of being implemented with user privacy safeguards to prevent unauthorized access to personal data and confidential data. The training of the AI models described herein is executed to benefit all users fairly, without causing or amplifying unfair bias.
[0413]
According to some examples, the techniques for the models described herein do not make inferences or predictions about individuals unless requested to do so through an input. According to some examples, the models described herein do not learn from and are not trained on user data without user authorization. In instances where user data is permitted and authorized for use in AI features and tools, it is done in compliance with a user's visibility settings, privacy choices, user agreement and descriptions, and the applicable law. According to the techniques described herein, users are capable of having full control over the visibility of their content and who sees their content, as is controlled via the visibility settings. According to the techniques described herein, users are capable of having full control over the level of their personal data that is shared and distributed between different AI platforms that provide different functionalities.
[0414]
According to the techniques described herein, users are capable of choosing to share personal data with different platforms to provide services that are more tailored to the users. In instances where the users choose not to share personal data with the platforms, the choices made by the users will not have any impact on their ability to use the services that they had access to prior to making their choice.
[0415]
According to the techniques described herein, users are capable of having full control over the level of access to their personal data that is shared with other parties. According to the techniques described herein, personal data provided by users is capable of being processed to determine prompts when using a generative AI feature at the request of the user, but not to train generative AI models. In some examples, users are capable of providing feedback while using the techniques described herein, which is capable of being used to improve or modify the platform and products. In some examples, any personal data associated with a user, such as personal information provided by the user to the platform, is deleted from storage upon user request. In some examples, personal information associated with a user is permanently deleted from storage when a user deletes their account from the platform.
[0416]
According to the techniques described herein, personal data is capable of being removed from any training dataset that is used to train AI models. In some examples, the techniques described herein utilize tools for anonymizing member and customer data. A user's personal data is capable of being redacted and minimized in training datasets for training AI models through delexicalization tools and other privacy enhancing tools for safeguarding user data. The techniques described herein are capable of minimizing use of any personal data in training AI models, including removing and replacing personal data. In examples of the techniques described herein, notices are communicated to users to inform how their data is being used and users are provided controls to opt-out from their data being used for training AI models.
[0417]
According to some examples, tools are used with the techniques described herein to identify and mitigate risks associated with AI in all products and AI systems. In some examples, notices are provided to users when AI tools are being used to provide features.
[0418]
Illustrative examples of the technologies disclosed herein are provided below. An example of the technologies includes any of the examples described herein, or any combination of any of the examples described herein, or any combination of any portions of the examples described herein.
[0419]
In some aspects, the techniques described herein relate to an apparatus including: a processor; a first memory including an action store, wherein the action store includes a hierarchical arrangement of memory layers and a plurality of actions stored in one or more of the memory layers, and the action store stores first mappings among actions and second mappings among actions and memory layers, wherein the first mappings among actions are hierarchical and an action is executable by an agent; and a second memory including an instruction to cause the processor to create or update the first mappings, the second mappings, or the first mappings and the second mappings, in response to a signal received from the agent via a device, the signal indicating (i) input including a task, (ii) feedback relating to an execution of one of the actions by the agent, (iii) performance data associated with the action, or any combination of (i), (ii), (iii).
[0420]
In some aspects, the techniques described herein relate to an apparatus, wherein the action includes metadata and the metadata includes an indication of a security level associated with action, or a performance metric associated with the action, or the indication of the security level and the performance metric, and wherein the instruction is to control access to the action according to the indication of the security level and a rule, or the performance metric and the rule, or the security level, the performance metric, and the rule.
[0421]
In some aspects, the techniques described herein relate to an apparatus, wherein the first memory is indexed by computing an embedding of the action and mapping the embedding to the action stored in the action store.
[0422]
In some aspects, the techniques described herein relate to an apparatus, wherein the memory layers include a first layer storing a first action and a second layer storing a second action, wherein a first security policy is associated with the first layer, a second security policy, different from the first security policy, is associated with the second layer, and wherein the instruction is to cause the processor to control access to the first layer according to the first security policy and control access to the second layer according to the second security policy.
[0423]
In some aspects, the techniques described herein relate to an apparatus, wherein the instruction is to cause the processor to (i) move the first action from the first layer to the second layer, (ii) move the second action from the second layer to the first layer, (iii) combine a plurality of actions into the first action, (iv) expand the first action into a plurality of actions, or any combination of (i), (ii), (iii), (iv).
[0424]
In some aspects, the techniques described herein relate to a computer-implemented method including: using an input to determine a task, wherein the input is obtained via a device and an agent accessible via the device; using the task to search an action store, wherein the action store includes a hierarchical arrangement of actions executable by the agent; in response to determining that the action store includes an action that corresponds to the task, providing access to the action to the agent; and triggering the agent to execute the action.
[0425]
In some aspects, the techniques described herein relate to a method, further including: providing the input and a first instruction to a machine learning model, wherein the first instruction is to cause the machine learning model to determine the task; and receiving the task from the machine learning model in response to the first instruction.
[0426]
In some aspects, the techniques described herein relate to a method, further including: providing the task and a second instruction to the machine learning model, wherein the second instruction is to cause the machine learning model to identify the action that corresponds to the task using embedding-based retrieval retrieval-augmented generation, or embedding-based retrieval and retrieval-augmented generation; and receiving the identified action from the machine learning model in response to the second instruction.
[0427]
In some aspects, the techniques described herein relate to a method, wherein the second instruction is to instruct the machine learning model to determine requirements for performing the task and to determine whether the action is capable of performing the requirements.
[0428]
In some aspects, the techniques described herein relate to a method, further including: in response to determining that the action is not capable of performing the requirements, providing the task and a third instruction to the machine learning model, wherein the third instruction is to cause the machine learning model to iteratively decompose the task into sub-tasks until the action is capable of performing the sub-tasks.
[0429]
In some aspects, the techniques described herein relate to a method, further including: providing the task and a fourth instruction to the machine learning model, wherein the fourth instruction is to cause the machine learning model to identify a plurality of actions that correspond to the task, rank the plurality of actions according to a first criterion associated with the task, and select the action from the ranked plurality of actions according to a second criterion associated with the task; and receiving the selected action from the machine learning model in response to the fourth instruction.
[0430]
In some aspects, the techniques described herein relate to a method, further including: in response to determining that a value of a performance metric associated with a first version of the action stored in a first layer of a multi-layer memory meets or exceeds a performance criterion, providing access to the agent to execute the first version of the action from the first layer of the multi-layer memory.
[0431]
In some aspects, the techniques described herein relate to a method, wherein the agent is a robot or self-driving vehicle.
[0432]
In some aspects, the techniques described herein relate to a method, further including: determining a mutability characteristic of the action, wherein the mutability characteristic is an indication of ability of the agent to self-mutate by executing the action; and using the mutability characteristic to control the access to the action by the agent.
[0433]
In some aspects, the techniques described herein relate to a computer-implemented method including: receiving a signal via an agent, wherein the signal relates to a first execution of a task by the agent using an action store, wherein the action store includes a hierarchical arrangement of memory layers, and the action store includes a plurality of actions stored in one or more of the memory layers, and the action store stores first mappings between actions and second mappings between actions and memory layers, wherein the first mappings among actions are hierarchical, and an action is executable by the agent; using the signal to modify the action store; and providing the modified portion of the action store to a second execution of the task by the agent.
[0434]
In some aspects, the techniques described herein relate to a method, further including: using the signal to create or update the first mappings, the second mappings, or the first mappings and the second mappings.
[0435]
In some aspects, the techniques described herein relate to a method, further including: in response to the signal, (i) moving the action from a first layer of the memory layers to a second layer of the memory layers, (ii) moving the action from the second layer to the first layer, or any combination of (i) and (ii).
[0436]
In some aspects, the techniques described herein relate to a method, further including: using the signal and a trajectory optimization mechanism to combine a plurality of actions into the action or expand the action into a plurality of actions.
[0437]
In some aspects, the techniques described herein relate to a method, wherein the task includes detecting and blocking malicious access to a cloud service and the agent is fully autonomous security software executing on a user computing device.
[0438]
In some aspects, the techniques described herein relate to a method, wherein the agent is a robot or self-driving vehicle.
[0439]
In some aspects, the techniques described herein relate to a method, system, apparatus, or non-transitory computer readable medium comprising any combination of any of the aspects shown or described anywhere in this disclosure, including in any of (i) the preceding claims, (ii) the specification, (iii) the drawings, or (iv) any combination of (i), (ii), (iii).
[0440]
Clause 1. An apparatus comprising: a processor; a first memory comprising an action store (128), wherein the action store (128) comprises a hierarchical arrangement of memory layers (132) and a plurality of actions stored in one or more of the memory layers, and the action store stores first mappings (134) among actions and second mappings (136) among actions and memory layers, wherein the first mappings among actions are hierarchical and an action is executable by an agent (902); and a second memory comprising an instruction to cause the processor to create or update the first mappings (134).the second mappings (136), or the first mappings (134) and the second mappings (136), in response to a signal received from the agent (902) via a device, the signal indicating (i) input comprising a task, (ii) feedback relating to an execution of one of the actions by the agent, (iii) performance data associated with the action, or any combination of (i), (ii), (iii).
[0441]
Clause 2. The apparatus of clause 1, wherein the action comprises metadata and the metadata comprises an indication of a security level associated with action, or a performance metric associated with the action, or the indication of the security level and the performance metric, and wherein the instruction is to control access to the action according to the indication of the security level and a rule, or the performance metric and the rule, or the security level, the performance metric, and the rule.
[0442]
Clause 3. The apparatus of clause 1 or clause 2, wherein the first memory is indexed by computing an embedding of the action and mapping the embedding to the action stored in the action store.
[0443]
Clause 4. The apparatus of any preceding clause, wherein the memory layers comprise a first layer storing a first action and a second layer storing a second action, wherein a first security policy is associated with the first layer, a second security policy, different from the first security policy, is associated with the second layer, and wherein the instruction is to cause the processor to control access to the first layer according to the first security policy and control access to the second layer according to the second security policy.
[0444]
Clause 5. The apparatus of clause 4, wherein the instruction is to cause the processor to (i) move the first action from the first layer to the second layer, (ii) move the second action from the second layer to the first layer, (iii) combine a plurality of actions into the first action, (iv) expand the first action into a plurality of actions, or any combination of (i), (ii), (iii), (iv).
[0445]
Clause 6. A computer-implemented method comprising: using an input to determine a task, wherein the input is obtained via a device and an agent (902) accessible via the device; using the task to search an action store, wherein the action store comprises a hierarchical arrangement of actions executable by the agent (902); in response to determining that the action store comprises an action that corresponds to the task, providing access to the action to the agent (902); and triggering the agent (902) to execute the action.
[0446]
Clause 7. The method of clause 6, further comprising: providing the input and a first instruction to a machine learning model, wherein the first instruction is to cause the machine learning model to determine the task; and receiving the task from the machine learning model in response to the first instruction.
[0447]
Clause 8. The method of clause 7, further comprising: providing the task and a second instruction to the machine learning model, wherein the second instruction is to cause the machine learning model to identify the action that corresponds to the task using embedding-based retrieval retrieval-augmented generation, or embedding-based retrieval and retrieval-augmented generation; and receiving the identified action from the machine learning model in response to the second instruction.
[0448]
Clause 9. The method of clause 8, wherein the second instruction is to instruct the machine learning model to determine requirements for performing the task and to determine whether the action is capable of performing the requirements.
[0449]
Clause 10. The method of clause 9, further comprising: in response to determining that the action is not capable of performing the requirements, providing the task and a third instruction to the machine learning model, wherein the third instruction is to cause the machine learning model to iteratively decompose the task into sub-tasks until the action is capable of performing the sub-tasks.
[0450]
Clause 11. The method of clause 7, further comprising: providing the task and a fourth instruction to the machine learning model, wherein the fourth instruction is to cause the machine learning model to identify a plurality of actions that correspond to the task, rank the plurality of actions according to a first criterion associated with the task, and select the action from the ranked plurality of actions according to a second criterion associated with the task; and receiving the selected action from the machine learning model in response to the fourth instruction.
[0451]
Clause 12. The method of clause 7, further comprising: in response to determining that a value of a performance metric associated with a first version of the action stored in a first layer of a multi-layer memory meets or exceeds a performance criterion, providing access to the agent to execute the first version of the action from the first layer of the multi-layer memory.
[0452]
Clause 13. The method of clause 7, wherein the agent is a fully autonomous physical robot or self-driving vehicle.
[0453]
Clause 14. The method of clause 7, further comprising: determining a mutability characteristic of the action, wherein the mutability characteristic is an indication of ability of the agent to self-mutate by executing the action; and using the mutability characteristic to control the access to the action by the agent.
[0454]
Clause 15. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving a signal via an agent (902), wherein the signal relates to a first execution of a task by the agent (902) using an action store (128), wherein the action store comprises a hierarchical arrangement of memory layers (132), and the action store comprises a plurality of actions stored in one or more of the memory layers, and the action store stores first mappings (134) between actions and second mappings (136) between actions and memory layers, wherein the first mappings among actions are hierarchical, and an action is executable by the agent (902); using the signal to modify the action store; and providing the modified portion of the action store to a second execution of the task by the agent (902).
[0455]
Clause 16. The method of clause 15, further comprising: using the signal to create or update the first mappings, the second mappings, or the first mappings and the second mappings.
[0456]
Clause 17. The method of clause 15 or clause 16, further comprising: in response to the signal, (i) moving the action from a first layer of the memory layers to a second layer of the memory layers, (ii) moving the action from the second layer to the first layer, or any combination of (i) and (ii).
[0457]
Clause 18. The method of any of clauses 15-17, further comprising: using the signal and a trajectory optimization mechanism to combine a plurality of actions into the action or expand the action into a plurality of actions.
[0458]
Clause 19. The method of any of clauses 15-17, wherein the task comprises detecting and blocking malicious access to a cloud service and the agent is fully autonomous security software executing on a user computing device.
[0459]
Clause 20. The method of any of clauses 15-17, wherein the agent is a fully autonomous physical robot or self-driving vehicle.
[0460]
Clause 21. A method, system, apparatus, or non-transitory computer readable medium comprising any combination of any of the aspects shown or described anywhere in this disclosure, including in any of (i) the preceding claims, (ii) the specification, (iii) the drawings, or (iv) any combination of (i), (ii), (iii).
[0461]
Aspects of the disclosure have been described with reference to specific examples thereof. The described examples are modifiable without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure reflected in the claims. The specification and drawings are illustrative and not restrictive.
Claims (20)
Hide Dependent 
1. An apparatus comprising:
a processor;
a first memory comprising an action store, wherein the action store comprises a hierarchical arrangement of memory layers and a plurality of actions stored in one or more of the memory layers, and the action store stores first mappings among actions and second mappings among actions and memory layers, wherein the first mappings among actions are hierarchical and an action is executable by an agent; and
a second memory comprising an instruction to cause the processor to update the first mappings or the second mappings in response to a signal received from a device, the signal relating to (i) a requested task, (ii) an execution of one of the actions by the agent, (iii) performance data associated with one of the actions, or any combination of (i), (ii), (iii);
wherein the memory layers comprise a first layer storing a first action and a second layer storing a second action, wherein a first security policy is associated with the first layer, a second security policy, different from the first security policy, is associated with the second layer, and wherein the instruction is to cause the processor to control access to the first layer according to the first security policy and control access to the second layer according to the second security policy.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the action comprises metadata and the metadata comprises an indication of a security level associated with the action, or a performance metric associated with the action, or the indication of the security level and the performance metric, and wherein the instruction is to control access to the action according to the indication of the security level and a rule, or the performance metric and the rule, or the security level, the performance metric, and the rule.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first memory is indexed by computing an embedding of the action and mapping the embedding to the action stored in the action store.
4. (canceled)
5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the instruction is to cause the processor to (i) move the first action from the first layer to the second layer, (ii) move the second action from the second layer to the first layer, (iii) combine a plurality of actions into the first action, (iv) expand the first action into a plurality of actions, or any combination of (i), (ii), (iii), (iv).
6. A computer-implemented method comprising:
using an input to determine a task, wherein the input is obtained via a device and an agent accessible via the device;
using the task to search an action store, wherein the action store comprises, a hierarchical arrangement of memory layers and a plurality of actions stored in one or more of the memory layers, wherein the memory layers comprise a first layer storing a first action and a second layer storing a second action, wherein a first security policy is associated with the first layer, a second security policy, different from the first security policy, is associated with the second layer, and wherein the instruction is to cause the processor to control access to the first layer according to the first security policy and control access to the second layer according to the second security policy;
in response to determining that the action store comprises an action that corresponds to the task, providing access to the action to the agent; and
triggering the agent to execute the action.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising:
providing the input and a first instruction to a machine learning model, wherein the first instruction is to cause the machine learning model to determine the task; and
receiving the task from the machine learning model in response to the first instruction.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising:
providing the task and a second instruction to the machine learning model, wherein the second instruction is to cause the machine learning model to identify the action that corresponds to the task using embedding-based retrieval retrieval-augmented generation, or embedding-based retrieval and retrieval-augmented generation; and
receiving the identified action from the machine learning model in response to the second instruction.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the second instruction is to instruct the machine learning model to determine requirements for performing the task and to determine whether the action is capable of performing the requirements.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising:
in response to determining that the action is not capable of performing the requirements, providing the task and a third instruction to the machine learning model, wherein the third instruction is to cause the machine learning model to iteratively decompose the task into sub-tasks until the action is capable of performing the sub-tasks.
11. The method of claim 7, further comprising:
providing the task and a fourth instruction to the machine learning model, wherein the fourth instruction is to cause the machine learning model to identify a plurality of actions that correspond to the task, rank the plurality of actions according to a first criterion associated with the task, and select the action from the ranked plurality of actions according to a second criterion associated with the task; and
receiving the selected action from the machine learning model in response to the fourth instruction.
12. The method of claim 7, further comprising:
in response to determining that a value of a performance metric associated with a first version of the action stored in a first layer of a multi-layer memory meets or exceeds a performance criterion, providing access to the agent to execute the first version of the action from the first layer of the multi-layer memory.
13. The method of claim 7, wherein the agent is a fully autonomous physical robot or self-driving vehicle.
14. The method of claim 7, further comprising:
determining a mutability characteristic of the action, wherein the mutability characteristic is an indication of ability of the agent to self-mutate by executing the action; and
using the mutability characteristic to control the access to the action by the agent.
15. A computer-implemented method comprising:
receiving a signal via an agent, wherein the signal relates to a first execution of a task by the agent using an action store, wherein the action store comprises a hierarchical arrangement of memory layers, and the action store comprises a plurality of actions stored in one or more of the memory layers, and the action store stores first mappings between actions and second mappings between actions and memory layers, wherein the first mappings among actions are hierarchical, and an action is executable by the agent, wherein the memory layers comprise a first layer storing a first action and a second layer storing a second action, wherein a first security policy is associated with the first layer, a second security policy, different from the first security policy, is associated with the second layer, and wherein the instruction is to cause the processor to control access to the first layer according to the first security policy and control access to the second layer according to the second security policy;
using the signal to modify the action store; and
providing the modified portion of the action store to a second execution of the task by the agent.
16. The method of claim 15, further comprising:
using the signal to create or update the first mappings, the second mappings, or the first mappings and the second mappings.
17. The method of claim 15, further comprising:
in response to the signal, (i) moving the action from a first layer of the memory layers to a second layer of the memory layers, (ii) moving the action from the second layer to the first layer, or any combination of (i) and (ii).
18. The method of claim 15, further comprising:
using the signal and a trajectory optimization mechanism to combine a plurality of actions into the action or expand the action into a plurality of actions.
19. The method of claim 15, wherein the task comprises detecting and blocking malicious access to a cloud service and the agent is fully autonomous security software executing on a user computing device.
20. The method of claim 15, wherein the agent is a fully autonomous physical robot or self-driving vehicle.

WO2026089797A1：

Description
HIERARCHICAL MULTI-LAYER ACTION STORE FOR AGENT-BASED TASK EXECUTION
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
[001] This application claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 63/709,935, filed October 21, 2024, which is incorporate herein by this reference in its entirety.
TECHNICAL FIELD
[002] Technical fields to which this disclosure relates include automated agents. Other technical fields to which this disclosure relates include the construction and application of large language model (LLM)-based agents.
COPYRIGHT NOTICE
[003] This patent document, including the accompanying drawings, contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction of this patent document, as it appears in the publicly accessible records of the United States Patent and Trademark Office, consistent with the fair use principles of the United States copyright laws, but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.
BACKGROUND
[004] Automated agents include hardware and/or software components that are capable of performing user-level tasks and actions without or with minimal direct human instruction. Agents differ from daemons and other computer programs that run as background processes in the level of complexity of the tasks they execute and the degree to which the agents are capable of interacting with human users.
[005] A device or system may include one or more autonomous and/or semi-autonomous agents. For example, a vehicle may include an autonomous agent that controls the vehicle in response to sensor signals, without asking a human operator whether to, e.g., step on the brake or turn the steering wheel. A semi-autonomous agent of the vehicle may automatically load a map with a navigation plan to get the human driver home to a known destination but then wait for the human driver to confirm the plan and start the vehicle before starting down the road.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[006] The disclosure will be understood more fully from the detailed description given below and from the accompanying drawings of various examples of the disclosure. The drawings are for explanation and understanding only and should not be taken to limit the disclosure to the specific examples shown.
[007] FIG. 1 is a component-based flow diagram of an example method for agent-based task execution using an action store in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[008] FIG. 2A is a schematic diagram of an example of a data structure for an action in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[009] FIG. 2B is a schematic diagram of an example of action mappings in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0010] FIG. 2C is a schematic diagram of an example of action to memory layer mappings in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0011] FIG.3 is a component-based flow diagram of an example method for agent-based task execution in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0012] FIG. 4 is a component-based flow diagram of an example method for action store management in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0013] FIG.5A, FIG.5B, and FIG.5C are schematic diagrams of examples of learned action store updates in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0014] FIG.6 is a component-based flow diagram of an example method for configuring and/or operating a multi-agent system in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0015] FIG. 7A, FIG. 7B, FIG. 7C, FIG. 7D illustrate examples of processes for agent configuration, including example depictions of graphical user interface elements, in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0016] FIG. 8A is a schematic diagram of an apparatus for action store management in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0017] FIG. 8B is a flow' diagram of an example method for agent-based task execution using an action store in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0018] FIG. 8C is a flow' diagram of an example method for action store management in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0019] FIG.9 is a component-based flow' diagram of an example method for configuring and/or operating an agent using components of an agent system in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0020] FIG. 10 is a component-based flow' diagram of an example method for creating and configuring an agent using components of an agent system in accordance w ith some examples of the present disclosure.
[0021] FIG. 11A is a component-based flow diagram of an example of a layered memory¬ structure for an agent in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0022] FIG. 11B is a component-based flow diagram of an example of a layered memory structure for an agent in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0023] FIG. 12 is a block diagram of a computing system that includes an agent system in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0024] FIG. 13A, FIG. 13B, FIG. 13C, FIG. 13D, FIG. 13E are block diagrams of examples of machine learning models that are usable by and/or included in an agent system in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0025] FIG. 14 is a block diagram of an example computer system including components of an agent system in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0026] A generative artificial intelligence (GAI) model, generative machine learning model (GMLM), or generative model is capable of using artificial intelligence technology, e.g., machine learning models, e.g., neural networks, to machine-generate digital content based on model inputs and the previously existing data with which the model has been trained. A generative language model is a particular type of GAI model that is capable of generating content in response to model input. The model input includes a task description, also referred to as a prompt or instruction. The task description includes one or more instructions (e.g., natural language or multimodal instructions, such as “please generate a summary of these search results,” “please generate a caption for this image,” or a video recording of, for instance, a demonstration of how to perform a task) and/or examples of digital content, such as text or multimodal content (e.g., digital images, videos, articles, audio, or other content produced using a particular language, format, writing style, or tone). In some examples, portions of the task description are in the form of natural language text, such as a question or statement. In some examples, a task description or prompt includes nontext forms of content, such as digital images, video, and/or audio.
[0027] A large language model (LLM) is a type of generative language model that is trained in an unsupervised way or self-supervised way on massive amounts of unlabeled data, such as publicly available texts extracted from the Internet, using deep learning techniques. In some examples, an LLM is capable of performing multiple different tasks across multiple different domains. A language model (LM) is similar in function and/or architecture to an LLM except that the LM is often trained on a much smaller dataset, e.g., to perform a domain-specific task. A language model or large language model is configurable to perform one or more natural language processing (NLP) tasks, such as generating content, classifying content, answering questions in a conversational manner, and translating content from one language to another.
[0028] GMLMs, and more specifically, large language models (LLMs), have demonstrated the ability to perform relatively simple tasks (e.g., single-step tasks or tasks that do not include any sub-tasks) using a conversational natural language question and answer format. However, using LLMs to build autonomous or semi-autonomous agents that are capable of performing more complex tasks (e.g., multi-step tasks or tasks that have one or more sub-tasks) is much more technically challenging. This is because complex tasks especially require the agents to perform consistently and generate output in a user-expected and reliable manner, but the inherent nature of LLMs is that the output of the LLMs can be unpredictable, particularly if the task is ambiguous or not well-defined. The risk of unpredictable output by LLMs is a deterrent to the widespread use of LLMs to build autonomous or semi-autonomous agents.
[0029] Another technical challenge that often limits the performance and usability of GMLMs for agent-based applications is that they lack self-awareness. That is, the GMLM’s knowledge base is limited to its training data, and the GMLM has no way of ‘‘knowing” that other relevant information exists outside the realm of its training data. In these cases, the GMLM is likely to engage in “Al hallucination,” through which the GMLM generates a response to the request using the training data and inputs it has been provided. Such responses often include inaccurate, unreliable, or nonsensical output due to Al hallucination. As a result, the GMLM often does not perform well for very specialized tasks or newly emerging tasks. This is often especially true for LLMs, which are usually trained on large web-based corpora that do not reflect the specific context and goals of a particular agent. Fine-tuning the LLM or carefully designing the agent prompts or architectures is sometimes helpful mitigate this issue. However, these approaches are time consuming and resource intensive, and are therefore not well-suited for dynamic or real-time environments.
[0030] Another technical challenge is that, in non-GMLM task-oriented software applications, the representation of data and data relationships, such as relationships between tasks (also referred to as requests or intents) and actions (also referred to as skills), is often accomplished using a structured approach, such as a taxonomy, which are structurally complex and resource-intensive to maintain. Currently available tools for building task-oriented applications with GMLMs do not provide a standardized way to represent data relationships. This lack of uniformity in data representation for GMLMs hinders data integration across modeling frameworks and software tools, making it challenging to implement agent-based task execution within a heterogenous ecosystem of machine learning models such as GMLMs and/or other software tools.
[0031] Various examples described herein seek to mitigate these and/or other technical challenges. For instance, examples provide task management components that query an action store (also referred to as a skill registry in some examples) for dynamic task-based agent configuration. Examples provide action store management components that enable dynamic creating, configuring, and updating of the action store based on, e.g., task execution output, performance data, and/or feedback.
[0032] As described in more detail below, examples include an action store that is hierarchical, and multi-layer, as well as a pre-processing task management component, and a post-processing action store management component. The hierarchical, multi-layer action store is indexed for efficient retrieval of actions from the action store in order to supply agents with actions (e.g., executable elements) needed to perform tasks responsively as those tasks are requested by entities, such as users, other agents, processes, components, devices, or systems. The action store is a type of database that stores actions. Creating and managing the action store is not straightforward and in various examples is achieved in a manner that is particularly efficient through the use of memory' layers and a hierarchical arrangement of actions in the action store. As a result the action store is usable by one or more agents to perform tasks with high performance.
[0033] In various examples there is an apparatus for constructing and managing an action store for use by agents when executing tasks. The apparatus comprises a processor and a first memory comprising an action store. The action store is a type of database or data store. The action store comprises a plurality of memory layers. By using a plurality of memory layers it is possible to differentially control accessibility to individual ones of the memory layers to facilitate security. By using a plurality of memory layers it is possible to differentially control priority of querying individual ones of the memory layers to control how agents retrieve actions. The plurality of memory layers are in a hierarchical arrangement such as a stack or other hierarchical data structure.
[0034] The action store is designed to facilitate data-driven (e.g., trial and error, observation and feedback) approaches for managing the action store, which are facilitated by a hierarchical data structure and multi-layer memory of actions, memory' layers, first mappings among actions, and second mappings among actions and memory layers. The hierarchical data structure stores first mappings among actions and second mappings among actions and memory layers. The first mappings specify hierarchical relationships or dependencies between or among actions, e.g., in a tree structure. The multi-layer memory includes multiple different layers of memory into which different actions and/or different versions of actions are stored such that different actions are stored in different memory layers and/or different versions of an action are stored in different memory layers. The second mappings specify- relationships between actions and memory layers in which the actions are stored. An example is shown in FIG. 2C. An action comprises an executable element capable of being executed by an at least semi-autonomous agent. In an example, an action is software executed by a physical robot in the environment. In another example, an action is software executed by a digital agent being operated by a human.
In various examples the apparatus for constructing and managing the action store has a second memory comprising an instruction that, wfien executed by the processor, is to cause the processor to create or update the first mappings, the second mappings, or the first mappings and the second mappings, in response to at least one signal received from the agent via a device. In an example, a human user operating a digital agent deployed on a computer being operated by the human sends a signal which is received by the second memory . In another example, a physical robot sends a signal which is received by the second memon'. The second memory creates or updates mappings in the action store in response to the signal thus giving data-driven (e g., trial and error, observation and feedback) management of the action store. The signal contains information about results of execution of one or more actions.
[0035] The pre-processing component performs task management for an agent including configurating and executing tasks. In some examples, the pre-processing component converts entity requests to tasks and queries the action store to identify actions that are used to accomplish the identified task. In some examples, the pre-processing component uses one or more GMLMs to perform one or more aspects of the pre-processing.
[0036] The post-processing component performs action store management including maintaining and updating the action store. For instance, the post-processing component incorporates signals received during task execution into the action store, for example by adding new actions to the action store, removing actions from the action store, assigning actions to memory layers, combining multiple sub-actions into a single action, dividing an action into multiple sub-actions, adding, removing, or updating mappings between actions; adding, removing, or updating mappings between actions and memory layers; and/or moving actions from one memory layer to another memory layer. In some examples, the post-processing component uses one or more trajectory optimization methods to perform one or more aspects of the postprocessing.
[0037] Some examples relate to the structure and management of an action store for an agentbased task execution system. Examples include data-driven (e.g., trial and error, observation and feedback) approaches for managing the action store. In some examples, data-driven approaches as described are facilitated by a hierarchical data structure and multi-layer memory.
[0038] Some examples address the problem of identifying and/or creating actions in the action store that correspond to requested tasks. Examples provide querying approaches that facilitate the use of GMLMs to solve this problem without needing to fine-tune the GMLMs themselves.
[0039] Some examples address the problem of task interpretation and/or clarification. Examples provide iterative approaches that use the action store and one or more GMLMs to interpret or clarify tasks by decomposing ambiguous or higher-level tasks into groups or series of well-defined or lower-level tasks.
[0040] Examples of tasks that are capable of being requested by an entity (such as a user, device, network, model, or another agent) include hardware-centric and/or software-centric tasks. These and/or other tasks are performed by one or more autonomous or semi-autonomous automated agents, in various examples.
[0041] An example of a task that relates to network security is detecting and resolving a denial of service attack. An example of a task that relates to devices for managing network traffic is load balancing. An example of a task that relates to embedded control systems is the control of a robotic device such as a robotic vacuum cleaner or autonomous vehicle. An example of a task that relates to application security or access control is detecting and disabling fraudulent accounts. An example of a task that relates to content distribution systems is controlling the routing of digital content on a network. Examples of tasks that relate to agent-based task management include controlling which agents are invoked in response to different inputs and coordinating the execution of multiple different agents involved in a task. Examples described herein are capable of configuring and controlling agents to perform these and many other types of tasks.
[0042] Some examples address the problem of learning new tasks. In some examples, task learning occurs when the action store does not contain any actions that map to a requested task or in response to feedback signals received during a task execution. Some examples use a multi-layer memory to maintain different versions of different actions at different memory layers so that if an action is not found at one layer, another layer is queried. Some examples improve fault tolerance of an agent by enabling the agent to perform a task, even if in a sub-optimal way, instead of failing to perform the task at all. In some examples, the agent learns an optimal way of performing that same task based on feedback and/or performance metrics, and incorporate that learning into a subsequent execution of the task, such as even the very next execution of the task. Some examples use the multi-layer memory to persist learnings obtained from one task execution for subsequent executions.
[0043] Some examples address the problem of controlling the level of autonomy assigned to an agent. In some examples, the action store stores metadata including mutability' characteristics of actions, which are used to identify actions that are capable of giving self-mutable capabilities to agents. Some examples employ a policies/configuration data store to maintain associations between agents and permitted levels of agent autonomy, such that at the time of agent configuration, the policies/configuration data is compared to the action metadata in the action store, to determine whether an action is properly assignable to an agent.
[0044] In various examples there is a computer-implemented method comprising using an input to determine a task, wherein the input is obtained via a device and an at least semi-autonomous agent. Using input from a device such as a user’s computer where a semi-autonomous agent is deployed, gives ease of use to end users. In some examples, the input is user input, or observations from sensors at the device, or results of a process executing at the user device, or at a physical robot where the device is a physical robot such as a humanoid robot or a self-driving vehicle. The task is used to search an action store, wherein the action store comprises a hierarchical arrangement of actions and an action is executable via the at least semi-autonomous agent. Using an action store with a hierarchical arrangement of actions enables efficient searching of the action store. Using an action store with a hierarchical arrangement of actions gives a compact action store. In response to determining that the action store comprises an action that corresponds to the task, providing access to the agent to execute the action. Thus, the agent is able to access an appropriate action in an efficient manner. The agent is triggered to execute action.
[0045] In various examples there is a computer-implemented method comprising receiving a signal via an agent, wherein the signal relates to a first execution of a task by the agent using an action store. In anon-limiting example, the task is a security task such as detecting and blocking malicious access to a cloud service and the semi -autonomous agent is security software executing on a user computing device. In the non-limiting example, the signal relates to first execution of the detecting and blocking malicious access to the cloud service by the security software.
[0046] The action store comprises a hierarchical arrangement of memory layers. Using a hierarchical arrangement of memory layers facilitates updating of the action store in a data driven fashion. The action store comprises a plurality of actions stored in one or more of the memory layers; and the action store stores first mappings between actions, and second mappings between actions and memory layers, where the first mappings among actions are hierarchical. Having the first mappings being hierarchical enables a compact storage giving efficiency. Having second mappings between actions and memory layers facilitates efficient searching for actions that are applicable to different agents or contexts. An action is executable by the agent. In the non-limiting example the signal is an observation of whether or not malicious access to the cloud service occurred in a specified time period.
[0047] The signal is used to modify at least a portion of the action store, such as by deleting an action which failed to give a successful outcome or moving an action which gave a successful outcome into a persisted memory’ layer, thus enabling data driven update of the action store. In an example, an action is to add a two factor authentication procedure to an account access process for accessing the cloud service. The signal is a successful outcome i.e., no malicious access to the cloud sendee in the specified time. At least the modified portion of the action store is provided to a second execution of the task by the at least semi-autonomous agent. In this way the agent leams since the changes in the action store result in changes in the actions executed by the agent.
[0048] In some examples, agent refers to a semi-autonomous or autonomous software system that is able to consume information and/or signals from its environment, execute logic, reasoning, and learning processes, and perform actions to achieve a specific goal or set of goals with minimal human guidance/intervention. In some examples, agents have multiple levels of autonomy. Some agents have the capacity to perform tasks requiring complex understanding, reasoning, learning, and adaptability. Some agents are capable of processing and interpreting natural language and/or multimodal digital content, determine relevant context, formulate plans, and leam from interactions or data inputs. Some agents dynamically adapt their processing capabilities in response to changing environments or goals. Some agents are capable of interacting with human users and other systems, including other agents or groups of agents. Unlike simpler automated systems, agents are data-driven and are capable of utilizing machine learning and/or deep learning techniques to improve their performance over time, making them suitable for a wide range of applications including digital assistance, personalized learning, and sophisticated problem-solving scenarios.
[0049] In some examples, entity refers to users, other types of entities, such as companies, organizations, institutions, associations, cohorts, or groups of entities, and/or to technological entities such as devices, networks, systems, components, processes, models, or agents. Any aspects of any examples that are described in the context of users are applicable to other t pes of entities in other examples. In some examples, any entity has one or more associated agents that are dynamically configured for a particular role or task using the approaches described herein.
[0050] In some examples, terminology such as ‘‘real time” or “dynamic” refers to a time delay introduced by the use of computer technology, e.g.. by back end data processing and/or network transmission, where the time delay is the difference in time, as measured, e g., by a system clock, between the occurrence of an online event and the use of data processed in response to the event, such as for display, feedback, and/or control purposes. In some examples, real time or dynamic refers to a time interval between a user input to a computer system and a presentation of output by the computer system. In some examples, dynamic indicates that one or more system components, data structures or data stores, e.g., agents, actions, databases, vector stores, memory layers, etc., are updated, reconfigured, or refreshed within a time interval that is less than the time interval between two different inputs to a computer system. In some examples, an agent accesses a first action al and execute the first action al to prepare and present a response rl to a first input il (e.g., a user interaction, sensor signal, etc.) with a computer system at a time tl. In some examples, the computer system obtains feedback fl related to the response rl at a time t2 which is greater than or equal to the time tl. At a time t3, the first action al is modified or updated by the computer system based on the feedback fl. If the computer system receives a second input i2 at a time t4, and time t4 is greater than or equal to the time t3, then the first action al is considered to have been updated dynamically, in some examples. Agents, actions, data stores, and/or memories are dynamically updated or reconfigured in some examples.
[0051] In some examples, learning, machine learning, or training refers to machine learning- based processes executed to improve agent performance of tasks and achievement of goals by agents. Examples of machine learning-based processes include processes used to configure, train, pre-train, or fine tune machine learning models, such as but not limited to supervised machine learning, semi-supervised machine learning, unsupervised machine learning, prompt engineering, reinforcement learning, in context learning, retrieval-augmented generation (RAG), retrieval -augmented fine tuning (RAFT), Chain-of-Thought reasoning, and/or Bayesian-style inference learning. In some examples, RAG or RAFT are be used to perform domain-specific fine tuning of a pre-trained machine learning model using, e g., samples of digital content that represent the desired domain-specific knowledge. In some examples using RAG, digital content is stored in and retrieved from a data store, e.g., a database such as a vector database, using queries that are formulated to measure the similarity between the digital content in the vector database and the query , question, or request being asked. In some examples, embedding-based retrieval is used to match vector representations of digital content stored in a vector database with a vector representation of a query, question, or request. With in-context learning, the retrieved content is used as input to an LM or LLM, which generates a response to the input including the RAG content. In some examples, the RAG content is paired with an expected output to produce a training input-output pair, which is used to fine tune the LM or LLM. Approaches such as RAFT are usable to customize an LM or LLM according to a particular entity’s preferences for performing a task. In some examples, RAFT is used to retrieve context data from multi-layer memory structures and the retrieved context data is used to fine tune a machine learning model. Additional examples of machine learning models and machine learning-based processes are described with reference to FIG. 13A. FIG. 13B, FIG. 13C, FIG. 13D, FIG. 13E
[0052] In some examples, dialog, chat, or conversation refer to one or more conversational threads involving a user of a computing device and an application. In some examples, a dialog or conversation has an associated user identifier, session identifier, conversation identifier, or dialog identifier, and an associated timestamp. In some examples, thread refers to one or more rounds of dialog involving the user and an application. In some examples, a round of dialog refers to a user input and an associated system-generated response, e.g., a reply to the user input that is generated at least in part via a generative artificial intelligence model. Any dialog or thread includes one or more different ty pes of digital content, including natural language text, audio, video, digital imagery, hyperlinks, source code, and/or multimodal content such as web pages.
[0053] Certain aspects of the disclosed technologies are described in the context of generative artificial intelligence models that receive text input and output text. However, the disclosed technologies are not limited to generative models that receive text input and produce text output. In some examples, aspects of the disclosed technologies are used to receive input and/or generate output that includes non-text forms of content, such as digital imagery, videos, multimedia, audio, hyperlinks, source code, and/or platform-independent file formats.
[0054] Certain aspects of the disclosed technologies are described in the context of electronic dialogs conducted via a network with an application system, such as a message- or chat-based application system or a search interface of an online system such as a social network system. However, aspects of the disclosed technologies are not limited to message- or chat-based systems or social network services, but are usable to improve various types of applications, machines, devices, and systems.
[0055] The disclosure will be understood more fully from the detailed description given below, which references the accompanying drawings. The detailed description of the drawings is for explanation and understanding, and should not be taken to limit the disclosure to the specific examples described.
[0056] In some examples, components with the same name but different reference numbers in different figures have the same or similar functionality such that a description of one of those components with respect to one figure is applicable to other components with the same name in other drawings.
[0057] Also, in the drawings and the following description, components shown and described in connection with some examples are capable of being used with or incorporated into other examples. In some examples, a component illustrated in a certain drawing is not limited to use in connection with the example to which the drawing pertains, but is usable with or incorporated into other examples, including examples shown in other drawings.
[0058] FIG. 1 is a component-based flow diagram of an example method 100 for agent-based task execution using an action store in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[0059] The method 100 is performed by processing logic that includes hardware (e.g., processing device, circuitry, dedicated logic, programmable logic, microcode, hardware of a device, integrated circuit, etc.), software (e.g., instructions run or executed on a processing device), or a combination thereof. In some examples, the method 100 is performed by the computing system components shown in FIG. 1, FIG. 3, FIG. 4, one or more components of computing system 900 of FIG.9, or agent system 1280 of FIG. 12. Although shown in a particular sequence or order, unless otherwise specified, the order of the processes is modifiable. In some examples, the processes are performed in a different order, and/or some processes are performed in parallel. Additionally, one or more processes are omitted in some examples. Thus, not all processes are required in every example. Other process flows are possible.
[0060] In FIG. 1, the method 100 is represented by arrows connecting components of a computing system, including components of an environment 101, an agent front end 102, and an agent back end 103. In the example of FIG. 1, the components of the agent front end 102 and/or agent back end 103 (collectively, agent system 102, 103) are implemented using one or more computing devices, such as an application server or server cluster. In some examples, the one or more computing devices include a secure environment (e.g., secure enclave, encryption system, etc.) for the processing of data. In other examples, one or more components of the agent system 102, 103 are implemented on a client device, such as a user system 1210, described herein with reference to FIG. 12. In some examples, some or all of agent system 102, 103 is implemented directly on a user’s device or within an embedded system, thereby avoiding the need to communicate with servers over a network such as the Internet.
[0061] Referring to FIG. 9, in some examples, portions of the agent front end 102 are included in the automated agent 902, while portions of the agent back end 103 are included in the distributed multi-agent system 905, such as communication sendee 908, adaptive learning service 910, multilayer memory structure 911, Al services 914, data resources 916, and/or tools 918.
[0062] The environment 101 includes one or more user devices 101A, a network 101B, and/or one or more sensing devices 101C. Examples of user devices 101A include computing devices, such as laptop computers, smart phones, mobile computing devices, smart appliances, wearable devices, game controls, vehicle controls, robotic devices, etc. Examples of networks 101B include wireless, optical, and/or wired communication networks. A non-exhaustive list of examples of sensing devices 101C includes motion sensors, load cells, force sensors, light sensors, temperature sensors, physiological sensors, energy sensors, and network sensors.
[0063] The agent front end 102 is or includes an application layer, presentation layer, and/or data layer of an agent-based task-oriented computing system. The agent front end 102 manages and facilitates electronic or electromagnetic communications between the environment 101 and the agent back end 103. In some examples, responsive to receiving input via one or more components of the environment 101, the agent front end 102 provides portions of the input to task management component 110, policies/config data 106, and/or action store management component 114 and provides portions of output produced by task management component 110, policies/config data 106, and/or action store management component 114 to the environment 101. Such output includes digital data such as multimodal content and/or instructions such as control signals.
[0064] In some examples, the output provided by the agent front end 102 to the environment 101 includes digital content for presentation via a graphical or multimodal user interface at one or more user devices 101A (e.g., search results, recommendations, access control instructions, user interface elements), control signals for processing by one or more components of the network 101B (e.g., network traffic routing instructions, load balancing instructions, network security instructions), or control signals for processing by one or more components of the sensing devices 101C (e.g., navigation instructions for a robotic device or vehicle, articulation or manipulation instructions for a component of a robotic device or vehicle, or operational instructions for a robotic device or vehicle, such as instructions to start, stop, or temporarily suspend the deployment of a component of the device or vehicle).
[0065] The agent back end 103 provides functionality that receives inputs from the agent front end 102, executes tasks in response to inputs, and provides output to the agent front end 102. The agent back end 103 includes policies/config data 106, a task management component 110, an action store management component 114, and an action store 128.
[0066] The policies/config data 106 includes one or more data stores (e.g., databases) that store data that is usable by agent front end 102, task management component 110, and/or action store component 114 to configure, control, or constrain the tasks performed by the agent system 102, 103. In some examples, the policies/config data 106 stores priority data that prioritizes certain memory layers of the action store 128 over others for querying by the task management component 110 in response to a given task, requesting entity, or execution context. Alternatively or in addition, the policies/config data 106 stores policies expressed as, for instance, logic, rules, or threshold conditions, which are usable by action store component 114 to determine whether and/or how to update the action store 128 in response to input from the environment and/or performance metrics associated with an execution of a task.
[0067] The task management component 110 is communicatively coupled to agent front end 102, policies/config data 106, action store management component 114, and action store 128. Task management component 110 builds or configures agents to execute tasks in response to inputs from the environment 101 and monitors the agent-based task executions. Task management component 110 includes an agent builder component 116 and a task execution component 118.
[0068] In response to a given set of one or more inputs from the environment 101, the agent builder component 116 configures the agent system 102, 103 to execute one or more tasks. The agent builder component 116 transforms inputs from the environment 101 to tasks, uses the action store 128 to map the tasks to actions stored in the action store 128, and outputs actions corresponding to the tasks for execution by the task execution component 118. In some examples, an action output by the agent builder component 116 is represented visually as an action graph. An action graph includes an action that corresponds to a task, one or more sub-actions, and dependencies or relationships between or among the action and sub-actions. An action graph also or alternatively is referred to as a workflow, in some examples. Functionality included in an example of the agent builder component 116 is described in more detail with reference to FIG.3.
[0069] The task execution component 118 initiates and monitors the execution of tasks, which are expressed as actions output by the agent builder component 116, in accordance with policies/config data 105. The task execution component 118 receives signals, such as user feedback and/or values of performance metrics, during execution of an action and causes action store management component 114 to log those signals in the action store 128 for subsequent processing by action store management component 114.
[0070] The action store management component 114 creates, maintains, and/or updates the action store 128 or actions stored therein, in response to tasks executions, feedback, performance data, and/or changes in policies/config data 106. In some examples, user feedback and/or performance data logged during an execution of an action initiates the creation of a new action or an update to the configuration of an action in action store 128 by the action store management component 114.
[0071] The action store management component 114 includes an action store builder component 120 and a trajectory optimization component 122. The action store builder component 120 creates and updates actions in response to, for example, output of trajectory optimization component 122. In some examples, the action store builder component 120 adds a new action to the action store, modify the relationships between actions and sub-actions, or modify7 the assignments of actions to memory layers in response to output of trajectory optimization component 122.
[0072] The trajectory optimization component 122 executes one or more trajectory optimization algorithms during or at the conclusion of a task execution to determine whether action store 128 should be updated based on the results of the task execution including any feedback or performance data associated with the task execution. A trajectory optimization algorithm is a type of optimization algorithm that is usable to design or re-design a trajectory to minimize or maximize the value of a performance metric while satisfying a set of constraints. As applied in some examples of action store management, the structure of an action (e.g., a visualization of the action as a graph) is analogous to a trajectory, the performance metric is specified by policies/config data 106, a current value of the performance metric is obtained or computed by task execution component 118 using, e. g. , input and/or feedback from the environment 101 during a task execution, and the set of constraints includes dependencies between sub-actions.
[0073] Output produced by trajectory7 optimization component includes, for instance, an instruction to create a new action in the action store, remove an action from the action store, or to modify the structure of an action. In some examples, an instruction produced by trajectory optimization component causes action store builder component 120 to combine multiple subactions into a single action, to divide an action into a group of sub-actions, or to create a different version of an action that is customized for a specific entity or usage context. The output of the trajectory optimization component 122 is provided to action store builder component 120. Functionality included in some examples of the agent builder component 116 is described in more detail with reference to FIG. 4.
[0074] The action store 128 includes one or more data stores (e.g., graph databases, vector stores). The action store 128 includes action data 130, memory layers 132. action-action mappings 134, action-memory layer mappings 136, and an embedding store 138. The action data 130 includes a data record that stores information for each action. An illustrative example of an action data record is described with reference to FIG. 2A.
[0075] The memory layers 132 include definitions of logical and/or physical memory' layers. The memory layers 132 are configured to facilitate low-latency access to task-relevant actions by¬ task management component 110. Illustrative examples of memory layers 132 are described with reference to FIG. 5A-FIG. 5C and FIG. 11A-FIG. 11B
[0076] The action-action mappings 134 include relationships between or among actions and sub-actions, such as action-specific dependencies, which include one-to-one, one-to-many, and/or many-to-many relationships. In some examples, the same sub-action is used to perform multiple different actions and some actions include no sub-actions, a single sub-action or multiple different sub-actions. The action-action mappings 134 are expressed programmatically using graph edges or keys, in some examples. Illustrative examples of action-action mappings 134 are described with reference to FIG. 2B.
[0077] The action-memory layer mappings 136 include relationships between or among actions and memory layers. Different memory layers are associated with different rules or thresholds regarding priority- or accessibility- to different entities or agents, in some examples. These rules or thresholds are specified in policies/config data 106. in some examples. Thus, the creation or modification of action-memory layer mappings 136 by action store management component 114 controls the priority or accessibility- of different actions by different entities or agents, in some examples. The action-memory layer mappings 136 are expressed programmatically using, e.g., graph edges or keys, in some examples. Illustrative examples of action-memory layer mappings 136 are described with reference to FIG. 2C.
[0078] The embedding store 138 stores embeddings. In some examples, embedding refers to a machine learning model-generated numerical representation of an input to the machine learning model. In some examples, an embedding encodes information, e.g., a set of features associated with an entity and/or attribute, relative to an embedding space, where the embedding space represents a set of training data with which the machine learning model has been trained. In some examples, an embedding is expressed programmatically as a vector, where each dimension of the vector includes a numerical value that is an integer or a real number (e.g., a floating-point number). The numerical value assigned to a given dimension of the vector conveys information about the data represented by the embedding, relative to the embedding space, also referred to as a vector space. The embedding space (or vector space) includes all of the possible values of each dimension of the vector. The embedding space is defined by the way in which the machine learning model used to generate the vector has been trained and configured, including the training data used to train the model.
[0079] The embedding store 138 includes task embeddings and/or action embeddings. In some examples, when a new' action is created, an embedding of the action description and/or action metadata is created and stored in embedding store 138. Similarly, when a new task is determined by task management component 110, an embedding of the task is created and stored in embedding store 138, in some examples. Task embeddings and action embeddings are created using the same embedding space, in some examples. For instance, task embeddings and action embeddings are both generated by the same GMLM, in some examples.
[0080] The embedding store 138, including the task embeddings and action embeddings, facilitates the use of embedding-based retrieval to identify actions in the action store 128 that are capable of performing tasks requested by the environment 101. Embedding-based retrieval (EBR) is a method of searching for similar digital content. Embedding-based retrieval involves converting digital data, e g., text, source code, multimodal content, sets of features, etc., to embeddings and then using a similarity algorithm, such as nearest-neighbor search or cosine similarity, to identify’ embeddings that are similar to one another. Terms such as similar, match or map as used herein refer to an exact match, in some examples, or an inexact match, in other examples. Examples of similar, match or map refer to a machine-determined predicted or estimated degree of similarity or compatibility between data items that satisfies (e.g., meets or exceeds) a threshold level of similarity or compatibility, where the threshold level of similarity or compatibility is variable based on the requirements of a particular design or implementation. The threshold level of similarity is capable of being set lower or higher for different types of similarity, matching or mapping.
[0081] In operation, the agent front end 102 receives input from the environment 101. The agent front end 102 exchanges communications 104 with task management component 110 to determine and execute one or more tasks in response to the input.
[0082] The task management component 110 exchanges communications 124 with action store 128 to identify actions to be included in the task execution. The task management component 110 is capable of exchanging communications 112 with action store management component 114 during or after task execution, such as feedback and/or performance metric updates to be added to action store 128 as a result of a task execution.
[0083] The agent front end 102 is capable of exchanging communications 108 with action store management component 114 to initiate the creation or updating of the action store 128 in response to input from the environment 101. The communications 108 also or alternatively includes information from action store management component 114 to agent front end 102, such as communications of action store updates that the agent front end 102 is capable of presenting to the environment 101. In some examples, agent front end 102 updates a user interface to reflect new actions added to action store 128 or actions removed from action store 128, in response to communications 108.
[0084] The action store management component 114 exchanges communications 126 with action store 128 to create, read, update, or remove records from action store 128 in response to input from the environment 101 and/or task executions. In some examples, communications 126 include instructions to create, modify or delete, or to modify access levels pertaining to, one or more of action data 130, memory layers 132, action-action mappings 134, action-memory layer mappings 136, or embedding store 138.
[0085] The examples shown in FIG. 1 and the accompanying description are provided for illustration purposes. This disclosure is not limited to the described examples.
[0086] FIG. 2A is a schematic diagram of an example of a data structure 200 for an action in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure. The data structure 200 provides a logical and/or physical organization of data relating to an action. In some examples, the data structure 200 is implemented as a data record stored in a database, such as a key-value store, a graph database, a vector database, or another type of database.
[0087] Action refers to any type of action (function, skill, tool, task, etc.) that is capable of being performed (e.g., executed via one or more computing devices) by an agent, in some examples. A complete set of actions that a particular agent is capable of performing is referred to as that agent’s action space, in some examples. Illustrative examples of actions include: execution of local code (e.g., built-in or plug-in Python function) (this type of action is referred to as a tool, in some examples); providing an instruction to a machine learning model, e.g., prompting a GMLM; executing a task (e.g., a group or series of related tasks); invocation of a remote service, such as an API or data management system (this type of action is referred to as a skill, in some examples); sending a request to another agent, group of agents, or human user. In some examples, actions are represented as GMLM-compatible function definitions (e.g., OPENAI or Pydantic JSON serialization). In some examples, an action is represented as a function that takes structured inputs and produces structured outputs, and includes a description of its purpose.
[0088] A skill represents a category of actions including complex operations that typically require external interactions beyond the local context of the agent. Unlike tools, which are simple and localized functions executable within the agent's immediate processing environment, skills involve calling external services or APIs, interacting with other agents or human users, and/or managing or manipulating external data systems, in some examples. Skills are defined by clear intent, with well-defined inputs and outputs. Skills encompass a wide range of functionalities, from querying databases and invoking web services to complex problem-solving tasks that require the synthesis of information from multiple sources, in some examples. The definition and execution of skills includes the technical specifications, the operational context, and the logical flow of the agent's tasks.
[0089] Tool refers to a category of actions characterized by simple, localized operations that an agent is capable of performing within its immediate execution context or environment, in some examples. Tools represent basic functions or routines that do not typically require external interaction or complex processing beyond the agent's current scope of work, in some examples. Illustrative examples of such functions include generating microprompts, executing internal or plugin functions, code generation for specific tasks (e.g., lambda functions), and basic data manipulation or computation.
[0090] In the data structure 200, each unit or element of the data structure (e.g., a field, column, node, dimension) stores digital data related to a particular action. In the example of FIG. 2A, the data structure 200 includes an action identifier (ID) 202, action metadata 204, and one or more executable elements 206. The action ID 202 uniquely identifies an action as distinguished from other actions.
[0091] The metadata 204 includes information that defines or describes the action associated with the action ID 202. For instance, the metadata 204 includes an owner identifier 208, a description 210, indexing 212, usage restrictions 214. and performance data 216. The owner identifier 208 identifies an entity that is associated with the action. In some examples, the owner ID is an entity that created the action, such as a user, another agent, or another type of entity.
[0092] The description 210 includes digital content that describes the action. The description 210 includes, in some examples, natural language text and/or multimodal digital content such as digital images, video, and/or audio. Alternatively or in addition, the description 210 includes an embedding of such digital content and/or other components of the action data record, or an identifier of the action embedding, w here the action embedding is stored in the embedding store.
[0093] The indexing 212 includes an index of task embeddings with which the action is associated. For instance, the indexing 212 contains task embedding identifiers 218 for all of the tasks to which the action relates. The task embeddings themselves are stored in an embedding store (e.g., the embedding store 138 described with reference to FIG. 1), in some examples. The indexing 212 facilitates querying of the action store by the task management component during task execution to identity’ actions that are applicable to requested tasks, in some examples. [0094] The indexing 212 is initialized using domain knowledge and updated based on task executions, in some examples. The embedding store is pre-populated with task embeddings of tasks that are pre-defined based on domain knowledge, such as a taxonomy, in some examples. The pre-populated embedding store is capable of being used to initialize the indexing 212. In some examples, the indexing 212 is configured for embedding-based retrieval (EBR). retrieval-augmented generation (RAG), and/or other querying techniques.
[0095] The usage restrictions 214 include information that is usable by the task management component to determine whether an action is permitted to be used by a certain agent or to perform a particular task. In some examples, the usage restrictions 214 include a flag that indicates whether the action includes one or more self-mutable capabilities that enable an agent to evaluate and modify its own configuration.
[0096] The performance data 216 includes information related to the performance of the action during task executions, such as cost (e.g., in terms of resource allocation), execution time, accuracy, efficiency, user feedback, signals from the environment, relevance of output generated by the action to a requested task, precision, recall, etc.
[0097] The executable elements 206 of an action include digital items that are executable by one or more computing devices, e.g., by task execution component 118, to complete the action in accordance with the description 210, in response to input from the environment 101. In some examples, executable elements 206 include code snippets, functions, plug-ins, API or RPC calls, GMLM instructions (e.g., prompts or microprompts), queries, inter-process communications, etc.).
[0098] The examples shown in FIG. 2A and the accompanying description are provided for illustration purposes. This disclosure is not limited to the described examples.
[0099] FIG. 2B is a schematic diagram of an example of action-action mappings in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure. The action-action mappings 220 are usable to define an action as a group or sequence of sub-actions. As such, the action-action mappings 220 enable the action store to create, maintain, and update actions of any degree of complexity from singlefunction to multi-function actions and even actions that involve multiple different agents. The action-action mappings 220 also facilitate agent configuration and task execution by the task management component to help conserve computing resources. In some examples, the task management component only needs to query the top level of the action hierarchy (e.g.. the root nodes) to identify actions that are capable of performing requested tasks in their entirety. In some examples, the task management component uses an iterative, hierarchical querying method, or an optimized path query to selectively query subsequent levels of the action hierarchy only when the previously-queried levels do not contain any actions related to a requested task. [00100] The example of FIG.2B includes N actions and N sub-actions, where, in each instance, /Vis a positive integer and / is capable of having a different value in different instances or contexts such that the number of actions does not need to be the same as the number of sub-actions. FIG.
2B shows illustrative actions 222, 224, illustrative sub-actions 226, 228, 230, 232. and actionaction mappings 220. The actions, sub-actions, and action-action mappings are implemented using, e.g., graph database structures (e.g., nodes, edges, and paths) and/or key-value stores, in some examples.
[00101] The action-action mappings 220 indicate hierarchical relationships between or among actions and sub-actions. FIG. 2B shows an action hierarchy with two levels; however, any action hierarchy is capable of including any number of levels. In some examples, a sub-action 226, 228, 230, 232 is itself mapped to one or more other sub-actions, and so on. Also or alternatively, any level of the hierarchy is capable of containing any number of actions or sub-actions. Any action is capable of having zero or more mappings with other actions or sub-actions. In some examples, an action is an action and is also sub-action of another action. In some examples, action 222 is a sub-action of action 224 for some tasks. The example of FIG. 2B shows action 1 222 having a mapping to each of the sub-actions 226, 228, 230, 232, and action 224 having a mapping with each of the sub-actions 226 and 232. In other examples, the number of action-action mappings 220 for a given action is different for other actions. In some examples, the number of action-action mappings 220 for a given action is updated over time, e.g., based on output of the trajectory optimization component described with reference to FIG. 1.
[00102] The examples shown in FIG. 2B and the accompanying description are provided for illustration purposes. This disclosure is not limited to the described examples.
[00103] FIG. 2C is a schematic diagram of an example of action to memory layer mappings in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[00104] In some examples, memory layer refers to a logical and/or physical unit, location, or portion of memory that has a specific purpose. Conversational memory (referred to as working memory, in some examples) is capable of storing information collected as an agent interacts with users and other agents. In some examples, the conversational memory has different levels of access to messages that have been exchanged during an agent’s session, such as raw dialog histories, summaries of messages, or EBR-based search of relevant messages given a query. Experiential memory (referred to as episodic, procedural, or long-term memory, in various examples) includes persistent storage that is structured and often indexed (e.g., for EBR) and provided with, e.g., CRUD operations (create, read, update, delete), query, and search operations to support, for example, the context for a task that an agent is currently working on, the learnings from the agent’s execution of that task into an episode for trajectory optimization, the long-term factual data and models constructed by an agent over its lifetime, and/or the shared context for a group of agents collectively executing a task.
[00105] The example of FIG. 2C illustrates a hierarchical and multi-layer structure of an action store. The structure includes actions, sub-actions, memory layers, action-action mappings, and action-memory layer mappings 240. Each of the N illustrative actions 242, 250, 256 includes a number of sub-actions and the corresponding action-action mappings between the action and associated sub-actions. For instance, action 242 is represented as a graph in which each of the subactions 244, 246, 248 are linked with the action 242. Action 250 is represented as a graph in which each of the sub-actions 252. 254 are linked with the action 250. Action 256 is represented as a graph in which each of the sub-actions 258, 260 are linked with the action 256.
[00106] The multi-layer memory 262 includes N memory layers, including a first memory layer 264, a second memory layer 266, and an Mh memory layer 268. The memory layers 264, 266, 268 are arranged according to a hierarchy or priority. In some examples, the hierarchy or priority is defined in, e.g., policies/config data 106 described with reference to FIG. 1. The hierarchy or priority data indicates a priority order for search functions, such that some memory layers are queried before other memory layers, in some examples. First memory layer 264 includes a shortterm or working memory' that is queried first during a task execution, and second memory' layer 266 includes a long-term or experiential memory into which learnings from a task execution are stored, in some examples. Alternatively or in addition, the hierarchy or priority indicates threshold access levels by which access to the memory layers by different agents is controlled. In some examples, first memory' layer 264 and second memory' layer 266 are local memories that are only accessible to a specific, associated agent while the Mh memory layer 268 is a collective memory’ that is accessible to multiple different agents.
[00107] The example of FIG. 2C shows that different components of an action are mappable to different memory’ layers. In some examples, component-level mapping is done for efficiency and/or conservation of memory resources, e g., so that the same action or sub-action is not stored in multiple memory layers. In some examples, action 242 and sub-action 244 are mapped to first memory layer 264 while sub-action 246 and sub-action 248 are mapped to second memory layer 266. In some examples, an initial execution of a task includes action 242 and sub-action 244, and based on feedback from the initial execution, sub-action 246 and sub-action 248 are added to action 242 (e.g., as a specific user preference as to how the agent is to perform action 242).
[00108] In another example, action 250 is mapped to the h memory layer 268 while sub-action 252 and sub-action 254 are mapped to the second memory' layer 266. In some examples, a first execution of a task includes only action 250 (e.g., obtained from a collective memory ) and based on feedback and/or performance signals from the particular environment in which the first execution took place, learnings from the first execution include adding sub-action 252 and subaction 254 to action 250 and adding mappings between each of the sub-actions 252, 254 and the second memory' layer 266.
[00109] In other examples, action 256 is mapped to second memory’ layer 266 while each of sub-actions 258. 260 are mapped to the Mh memory’ layer. In some examples, an agent learns from a first execution that a task is capable of being effectively performed by action 256 using sub-actions 258, 260 obtained from a global or ‘corporate’ memory’ layer 268. In some examples, the task is ambiguous on the first execution but as a result of performance metrics associated with the first execution the agent determines that the task is performed effectively using the action 256 including the sub-actions 258, 260, yvhere the sub-actions 258, 260 are accessible to the agent not via a local memory layer but via a shared or remote memory’ layer that is accessible to multiple different agents or entities. Examples of how actions, memory' layers, and mappings of the action store are updated based on task executions are described with reference to FIG.5A, FIG.5B, and FIG. 5C. Additional examples of memory layers and action stores (e.g., data registnes) are described yvith reference to FIG. 10, FIG. 11A, and FIG. 11B.
[00110] The examples shown in FIG. 2C and the accompanying description are provided for illustration purposes. This disclosure is not limited to the described examples.
[00111] FIG. 3 is a component-based flow diagram of an example method for agent-based task execution in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[00112] The method 300 is performed by processing logic that includes hardyvare (e.g., processing device, circuitry, dedicated logic, programmable logic, microcode, hardware of a device, integrated circuit, etc.), software (e.g., instructions run or executed on a processing device), or a combination thereof. In some examples, the method 300 is performed by the computing system components shown in FIG. 1, FIG. 3, FIG. 4, one or more components of computing system 900 of FIG.9, or agent system 1280 of FIG. 12. Although shoyvn in a particular sequence or order, unless otherwise specified, the order of the processes is modifiable. In some examples, the processes are performed in a different order, and/or some processes are performed in parallel. Additionally, one or more processes are omitted in some examples. Thus, not all processes are required in every' example. Other process flo vs are possible.
[00113] In the example of FIG. 3, an agent builder component 310 configures an agent to perform a task by using an action store 304 and one or more machine learning models 316 to identify one or more actions that are capable of completing the requested task. In some examples, the one or more identified actions include a single action that completely performs the task or an action graph that contains multiple actions each of which performs a different portion of the task. The action builder component 310 and/or the machine learning model 316 provides the task- aligned actions, or at least the executable elements of such actions, to task execution component 336 for execution.
[00114] In operation, some examples of agent builder component 310 perform operations 312, 320, 324 iteratively, as indicated by loop 344, until a one-to-one mapping of tasks to actions is determined. In some examples, agent builder component 310 receives input 306 and context 308 from, e.g., agent front end 102 or directly from an environment (e.g., environment 101).
[00115] Illustrative examples of the input 306 include selections from a user interface, communications from a network, and/or signals from one or more sensing devices. Illustrative examples of the context 308 include metadata associated with the input 306, such as session information, user account information, entity profile data, interaction history data. Illustrative examples of other inputs to agent builder component 310 include policies/config data 302 and action store 304, described with reference to FIG. 1 and FIG. 2A-FIG 2C. Machine learning model 316 includes one or more machine learning models, such as GMLMs. In some examples, the same machine learning model is used in the performance of all of operations 312, 320, 324 while in other examples, different machine learning models are used to perform different operations 312, 320, 324. Examples of machine learning models that are usable to perform portions of operations 312, 320, 314 are described with reference to FIG. 13A - FIG. 13E.
[00116] At determine/clarify tasks operation 312. the agent builder component 310 provides a task determination instruction 314 to machine learning model 316 to cause the machine learning model 316 to convert the input 306, and context 308, if available, to one or more tasks 318. In some examples in which the machine learning model 316 is a GMLM. the task determination instruction 314 is configured to provide the input 306 and context 308 to the machine learning model 316 as model inputs along with an instruction that instructs the machine learning model 316 to classify the model inputs, into one of a plurality of classes where each class is a task, using the GMLM’s training data alone or in combination with structured data such as task embeddings, a task vocabulary or taxonomy.
[00117] In other examples, the machine learning model 316 is a binary or multi-class classifier implemented using, e g., a logistic regression model, and the task determination instruction 314 provides the input 306 and context 308 to the machine learning model 316 as a feature set or embedding (in other words, the determine/clarify task(s) operation 312 converts the input 306 and context 308 to a feature set or embedding to be used as model input and then provides the model input to the machine learning model 316).
[00118] The determine/clarify task(s) operation 312 is capable of executing iteratively. In some examples, if the initial input 306 and/or context 308 is ambiguous or lacking information needed to fill one or more parameters of the task determination instruction 314, the determine/clarify task(s) operation 312 requests additional input 306 and/or context 308 from, e.g., agent front end 102, until the one or more parameters of the task determination instruction 314 are filled.
[00119] In response to one or more iterations of task determination instruction 314, machine learning model 316 determines and outputs one or more task(s) 318. Illustrative examples use an embedding-based retrieval technique to identify task(s) that correspond to different combinations of input 306 and/or context 308. In some examples, task embeddings are pre-generated and stored in an embedding store (e.g., embedding store 138) using, for example, domain knowledge, dialog histories, and/or structured data such as a taxonomy, so that when a combination of input 306 and/or context 308 is received by agent builder component 310. such combination is converted to an embedding using the same embedding space as used to create the task embeddings, and matched to task embeddings in the embedding store.
[00120] The task(s) 318 determined by machine learning model 316 are used to identify corresponding actions in the action store 304. In some examples, the filter/rank actions from action store operation 320 uses the task(s) 318 or the corresponding task embeddings to search the action store 304 for actions whose associated action embeddings match the task embeddings. If no actions in the action store are found that correspond to the task(s) 318, the filter/rank actions from action store operation 320 sends a communication to action store management component 340 to initiate the creation of a new action in the action store, in some examples.
[00121] In response to task(s) 318, the filter/rank actions from action store operation 320 provides an action store subset 322 to machine learning model 316. The action store subset 322 includes a filtered portion of the action store 304; e.g., only those actions that correspond to the task(s) 318. Filtering the actions enables the machine learning model 316 to identify actions more efficiently and with reduced risk of Al hallucination, in some examples. Alternatively or in addition, the operation 320 uses policies/config data 302 to filter the action store 304, so that the action store subset 322 includes only those actions that the particular agent is permitted to execute and/or only those actions that satisfy one or more performance criteria. However, in some examples, the action store subset 322 includes the entire action store 304 instead of a filtered subset that contains less than all of the actions in the action store 304.
[00122] The identify corresponding action(s) operation 324 provides an action determination instruction 326 to machine learning model 316. The action determination instruction 326 is configured to cause the machine learning model 316 to use the action store subset 322 and the tasks(s) 318 to identify one or more action(s) that correspond to the task(s) 318. In some examples, the action determination instruction 326 includes an instruction to cause the machine learning model 316 to generate a set of requirements for performing one or more of the task(s) 318 and then identify one or more action(s) from the action store subset 322 that is capable of satisfying each of the requirements generated by the machine learning model 316.
[00123] In some examples, the action determination instruction 326 includes an instruction to cause the machine learning model 316 to determine, for a given task 318, whether there exists, in the action store subset 322, one or more single actions that completely perform that task 318. In some examples, the action determination instruction 326 includes a first instruction to cause the machine learning model 316 to generate a set (e.g., one or more) of actions 328, each of which is capable of completely performing the task 318, a second instruction to cause the machine learning model 316 to rank the actions in the set of actions 328 according to one or more ranking criteria to produce ranked actions 330. and a third instruction to cause the machine learning model 316 to select the top k actions from the set of ranked actions to produce selected action(s) 332, where k is a positive integer whose value is configurable based on the requirements or design of a particular implementation. In any case where multiple instructions are described, any of the multiple instructions are capable of being combined into fewer instructions or divided into a greater number of instructions to achieve greater efficiency, lower latency, reduce Al hallucination, or improve some other performance metric.
[00124] If, in response to an action determination instruction 326 that instructs the machine learning model 316 to determine whether there is a single action in the action store 304 that is capable of completely performing a task 318, the machine learning model 316 determines that no such action exists in the action store 304, the loop 344 returns to determine/ clarify task(s) operation 312 for further clarification of the task 318, in some examples. In these examples, the task determination instruction 314 instructs the machine learning model 316 to perform a task decomposition process which divides the task 318 into a set (e.g., one or more) of sub-tasks, and then to perform the identify corresponding action(s) operation 324 for each sub-task. A task decomposition process is capable of being performed iteratively via loop 344 until there is a one-to-one correspondence between tasks (or sub-tasks, as the case may be) and actions contained in the action store 304.
[00125] The machine learning model 316 or the agent builder component 310 outputs the selected action(s) 332 corresponding to the task(s) 318, or at least the executable element(s) 334 of the selected action(s), to task execution component 336 for an execution of the task(s) 318. The executable elements 334 are capable of being extracted from the corresponding action data records in the action store 304 by machine learning model 316 or task execution component 336. In some examples, the output of machine learning model 316 includes one or more action subgraphs, where nodes or elements of the subgraphs contain or reference corresponding executable elements.
[00126] The task execution component 336 performs an execution of the actions determined by machine learning model 316 to correspond to the task(s) 318, e.g., in accordance with the respective action subgraphs and applicable policies/ config data 302. During the execution, the task execution component 336 receives one or more signals 338 pertaining to one or more of the actions or its execution. In some examples, the signal(s) 338 include feedback from the environment 101, performance data associated with the execution or one or more actions involved in the execution, and/or communications from one or more other agents. In some examples, an evaluation agent of a multi-agent system evaluates instances of machine learning model output for compliance with one or more evaluation criteria (e.g., spam, inappropriate content, Al hallucination, etc.) and provides signals to the task execution component 336.
[00127] The task execution component is capable of communicating one or more of such signals 338 to action store management component 340. In response to signal(s) 338, action store management component 340 communicates one or more action store updates 342 to action store 304. In some examples, action store update(s) 342 include feedback and/or performance data for a particular action, which is logged in the data record for that action in the action store 304. As a result, the next time the action store 304 is queried, e.g., on a subsequent execution of a task 318, the feedback and/or performance data from the earlier execution is available to the agent builder component 310.
[00128] The examples shown in FIG. 3 and the accompanying description are provided for illustration purposes. This disclosure is not limited to the described examples.
[00129] FIG. 4 is a component-based flow diagram of an example method 400 for action store management in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[00130] The method 400 is performed by processing logic that includes hardware (e.g., processing device, circuitry, dedicated logic, programmable logic, microcode, hardware of a device, integrated circuit, etc.), software (e.g., instructions run or executed on a processing device), or a combination thereof. In some examples, the method 400 is performed by the computing system components shown in FIG. 1, FIG. 3, FIG. 4, one or more components of computing system 900 of FIG.9, or agent system 1280 of FIG. 12. Although shown in a particular sequence or order, unless otherwise specified, the order of the processes is modifiable. In some examples, the processes are performed in a different order, and some processes are performed in parallel. Additionally, one or more processes are omitted in some examples. Thus, not all processes are required in every' example. Other process flows are possible.
[00131] The example of FIG. 4 illustrates processes for maintaining and updating an action store. From time to time during execution of an agent system (e.g., as described with reference to FIG. 1, FIG. 9, FIG. 10, FIG. 12) an agent builder component 420 receives input 404 and/or context 406 via one or more agent front ends 402. The agent builder component 420 converts input 404 and/or context 406 to tasks 410, determines actions 418 in the action store 416 that correspond to the tasks 410, and provides executable elements 422 associated with the actions 418 to task execution component 424, for instance as described with reference to FIG. 3.
[00132] If the agent builder component 420 identifies a new task, e.g., a task 410 that does not have a corresponding action in the action store 416, agent builder component 420 provides the task 410 to action store builder component 412, in some examples. In response to such atask 410, the action store builder component 412 initiates one or more action store updates 414 and provide such updates 414 to action store 416. In some examples, agent front end 402 provides an interactive chat-style onboarding procedure through which a user defines or configures a new task. In response to such an onboarding procedure, action store builder component 412 initializes or updates the action store 416 or at least a portion of the action store 416 with action store updates 414 obtained via the onboarding procedure or otherwise associated with that particular user.
[00133] One or more action store updates 430 is initiated via one or more task executions, in some examples. Task execution component 424 is capable of providing feedback and/or performance metrics 426 to a trajectory optimization component 428. Trajectory optimization component 428 applies one or more trajectory optimization techniques to one or more actions based on feedback/metrics 426. In some examples, trajectory' optimization component 428 converts the output of the one or more trajectory optimization techniques to one or more action store updates 430, and provides such updates 430 to action store 416.
[00134] In response to feedback and/or metrics 426 for a particular action represented by an action graph, trajectory optimization component 428 generates a set (e.g., one or more) of alternative action graphs and then apply an optimization algorithm to current action graph and each of the alternative action graphs, where the optimization algorithm seeks to optimize the value of one or more optimization parameters (e.g., to minimize the value output by a cost function). Via the optimization algorithm, the trajectory' optimization component 428 obtains a score (such as an estimated cost) for each of the current action graph and alternative action graphs. The trajectory optimization component 428 uses these scores to rank the current action graph and alternative action graphs, for instance so that the lowest-cost action graph is ranked the highest and the highest-cost action graph is ranked the lowest. If the lowest-cost action graph is one of the alternative action graphs and not the current action graph, the trajectory' optimization component 428 provides the alternative action graph with the lowest cost to the action store 416 as an action store update 430 (e.g., to replace the current action graph, or to be stored in a different memory¬ layer, such as an experiential memory layer, for use on a subsequent task execution).
[00135] In some examples, updates to policies/config data 408 trigger one or more action store updates 414 or action store updates 430. If configuration data in the policies/config data 408 is updated, e.g., to change the access level or priority of memory layers for query purposes, such configuration updates are propagated to the action store 416 via one or more action store updates 414, 430, in some examples. Alternatively or in addition, if policy data in the policies/ config data 408 is updated, e.g., to change a self-mutability flag associated with a mutability characteristic of a particular action, such policy updates are propagated to the action store 416 via one or more action store updates 414. 430.
[00136] The examples shown in FIG. 4 and the accompanying description are provided for illustration purposes. This disclosure is not limited to the described examples.
[00137] FIG. 5A, FIG. 5B, and FIG. 5C are schematic diagrams of examples of learned action store updates in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure. In each of FIG. 5A, FIG. 5B, and FIG. 5C, each of the memory layers is associated with a priority (e.g., Pl, P2, P3, P4) and an access level (e.g., Al, A2). In some examples, the priority indicates the order in which the memory' layers are to be queried (e.g., Pl is higher priority than P2, causing Pl to be searched before P2, and so on). In some examples, the access level restricts access to one or more of the memory layers only to certain agents (e.g., Al indicates that only a certain user-specific agent is permitted to access the associated memory layer(s) while other agents are excluded from accessing those memory' layers; A2 indicates that more than one agent is permitted to access the associated memory layer(s) such that more than one agent is permitted to access those layers.
[00138] In each of FIG. 5A, FIG. 5B, and FIG. 5C. four memory layers and two executions are shown for illustration purposes only. Any action store is capable of having any number of memory layers less than, greater than, or equal to four (and greater than or equal to one). Here, and throughout the disclosure, the labels “first’ ’ and “second” are for purposes of differentiation, only; e.g., a first execution need not be the very first execution in a sequence or series of executions and the second execution need not immediately follow' the first execution but merely be subsequent to or different from the first execution.
[00139] In each of FIG. 5A, FIG. 5B, and FIG. 5C, each action is represented by an action graph that includes multiple sub-actions, for illustration purposes only. Any action is capable of including only a single action or any number of sub-actions, depending on the requested task.
[00140] FIG.5A show s an example of an action store update that includes an update to a second memory layer 504 responsive to one or more signals (e.g., feedback, such as automated observations by a device, computing system, or model, such as performance metrics, and/or user feedback). In FIG.5A, on a first execution 510 of a task, a fourth memory layer 508 is populated with an action 516 related to a requested task, a third memory layer is populated with an action 514 related to the requested task, and a second memory' layer 504 is not populated with an action that is related to the requested task. In some examples, the action 516 is a global definition of a task-related action, and the action 514 is a corporate or group-based definition of the same task- related action (e.g., a company or team within the company has a different way of performing the task than the broader, global population). The action 514 includes sub-action 2 and sub-action 3 while the action 516 contains the same sub-action 2 but a different sub-action 4.
[00141] In some examples where the access level Al is associated with both the first memory layer 502 and the third memory layer 506, the first execution 510 is initialized with a version of action 1 that is action 514; thus, action 514 is initially loaded into the first memory layer 502 (e.g., working memory). During the first execution 501, feedback is received, indicating to include subaction 1 in the action 1. Thus, during the first execution 510, sub-action 1 is added to the action 512. The feedback is received in an automated manner from observations of outcome of the first execution 501. In various examples the feedback is referred to as a signal. In various examples, the signal (also referred to as feedback) is received from an at least semi-autonomous agent via a device. For example, the semi-autonomous agent is in the environment 101 and is a person operating a computer where “device” refers to a computer. In another example, the feedback is from a fully autonomous physical agent in the environment 101 such as a physical robot or selfdriving vehicle. In another example, the feedback is from a fully autonomous digital agent in the environment. In another example, the feedback is from sensors in the environment and is sensed observations of the outcome of one or more actions performed by an agent. In some examples, fully autonomous means having the abi 1 i ty to operate independently without human intervention. A fully autonomous system is capable of making decisions and executing actions based on its programming or training and the data it collects, in some examples.
[00142] After the first execution 510, an action store management process stores the updated version of action 1, e.g., action 512, in the second memory layer 504 (e g., experiential memory), as action 520. As a result, the updated version of action 1, action 520, is available to initialize the second execution 518. On the second execution 518, the first memory layer 502 is clear, such that the next memory layer in priority order (P2, second memory layer 504) is queried to obtain the updated version of action 1, action 520). No changes are made to the third memory’ layer 506 (e.g., action 522 is the same as action 514) or fourth memory layer 508 (e.g.. action 524 is the same as action 516), in accordance with, e.g., policies/config data 106.
[00143] FIG. 5B is a schematic diagram of an example of learned action store updates in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[00144] The example of FIG.5B is similar to the example of FIG.5A, in that different versions of an action 1 are stored in different memory layers having different search priorities and access levels. However, in FIG. 5B, the first memory layer 532 is initialized with action 542 as a result of a query of the second memory layer 534 retrieving action 544. For instance, as a result of a previous learning that the structure shown in the action 544 is successful for performing action 1, the first memory layer 532 is populated with that same structure for the action one on the first execution 540.
[00145] Also, on the second execution 550, the action graph for the action 1 is updated in the second memory layer 534 such that the version of action 1, action 552, in the second memor ’ layer 534 on the second execution 550 is different from the version of action 1. action 544. in the second memory layer 534 on the first execution 540. In some examples, the trajectory optimization process determines that sub-action 2 and sub-action 3 are combinable into a more efficient or less computationally costly sub-action 5, and as a result, updates the second memory layer 534 to store this learning at or prior to the second execution 550.
[00146] Fourth memory layer 538 includes action 548 on first execution 540 and action 556 on second execution 550, where the action graph is the same for both action 548 and action 556. Third memory layer 536 includes action 546 on first execution 540 and action 554 on second execution 550, where the action graph is the same for both action 546 and action 554.
[00147] FIG. 5C is a schematic diagram of an example of learned action store updates in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[00148] The example of FIG. 5C is similar to the examples of FIG. 5A and FIG. 5B, in that different versions of an action 1 are stored in different memory layers having different search priorities and access levels. However, in FIG. 5C, after trajectory optimization has updated the second memory layer at or prior to a second execution 590, it is determined (e.g., via policies/ config data 106) that the learnings at the second memory layer 574 should be propagated to the third memory' layer 576 and the fourth memory layer 578. As such, the third memory' layer 576 contains a first version of action 1, action 586, on first execution 580. and a second version of action 1, action 594, on second execution 590, where the action 594 has replaced sub-action 3 with sub-action 5. In the fourth memory layer 578, a first version of action 1, action 588, is stored on first execution 580, and a second version of action 1, action 596, is stored on second execution 590, where the second version of action 1, action 596, has added sub-action 5 to the previous version of action 1, action 588.
[00149] On first execution 580, first memory layer 572 and second memory layer 574 contain similar versions of action 1, e.g., action 582 and action 584 have the same action graph. On second execution, the second memory layer 574 is updated, e.g., as the result of feedback, performance data, and/or trajectory optimization, such that action 592 includes only sub-actions 1 and 5 while the prior version of action 1, action 584, contained sub-actions 1, 2, and 3.
[00150] The examples shoyvn in FIG. 5A, FIG. 5B, and FIG. 5C and the accompanying descriptions are provided for illustration purposes. This disclosure is not limited to the described examples. [00151] FIG. 6 is a component-based flow diagram of an example method 600 for configuring and/or operating a multi-agent system in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[00152] The method 600 is performed by processing logic that includes hardware (e.g., processing device, circuitry, dedicated logic, programmable logic, microcode, hardware of a device, integrated circuit, etc.), software (e.g., instructions run or executed on a processing device), or a combination thereof. In some examples, the method 600 is performed by the computing system components shown in FIG. 1, FIG. 3, FIG. 4, one or more components of computing system 900 of FIG.9, or agent system 1280 of FIG. 12. Although shown in a particular sequence or order, unless otherwise specified, the order of the processes is modifiable. In some examples, the processes are performed in a different order, and/or some processes are performed in parallel. Additionally, one or more processes are omitted in some examples. Thus, not all processes are required in every example. Other process flow s are possible.
[00153] In FIG. 6, a multi-agent system interacts with one or more components of an environment 601 via an agent library front end 602. The agent library front end 602 interacts with one or more agents via an agent selection component 606 and one or more agent front ends 608, 610, 612, 614. In the example of FIG.6, each agent front end has an associated profile 608a, 610a, 612a. 614a (e.g., a profile associated with a type of entity).
[00154] Each or any of the agent front ends 608. 610, 612, 614 is capable of being implemented in a similar manner as agent front end 102. Agent back end 616 is capable of being implemented in similar manner as agent back end 103. As such, each or any of the agent front ends 608, 610, 612, 614 is capable of interacting with task management component 618, action store 620, and/or action store management component 622 of agent back end 616 in a similar manner as described with reference to FIG. 1, FIG. 3, and/or FIG. 4.
[00155] In operation, agent library front end 602 is capable of receiving one or more inputs and/or context from one or more user devices 601 A, networks 601B, and/or sensing devices 601C of environment 101. In response to such inputs and/or context, agent library’ front end 602 determines a project or task and provides the project/task 604 to agent selection component 606.
[00156] Agent selection component 606 selects from among the available agents (e.g., via agent front ends 608, 610, 612, 614, one or more agents capable of performing the project or task. The agent selection component 606 employs any suitable search technique, such as facet-based searching of the entity profiles pages, embedding-based retrieval (EBR), retrieval-augmented generation (RAG), or other suitable method, to identify prospective agents for performing the project/task 604 and provide the prospective agent(s) to agent library front end 602.
[00157] In response to a presentation of the prospective agents, the environment 101 generates a signal indicating a selection of one of the agents to perform the project/task 604. In some examples, a user device in the environment 101 receives user input selecting one of the agents. In other examples, a physical robot, or digital robot, or other automated entity in the environment 101 selects one of the agents using rules or other criteria, in a fully automated manner. In response to such a selection, the selected agent initiates the performance of the project/task 604 via the agent front end corresponding to the selected agent and the agent back end 616. In some examples, the agent building, task execution, and action store management processes described with reference to, e.g., FIG. 1, FIG. 3, and/or FIG. 4 is initiated in response to a selection of an agent via agent library front end 602. Once an agent is selected, the environment 601 interacts directly with the applicable agent front end associated with the selected agent. In some examples, an entity¬ in the environment 601 such as a physical robot or a user device interacts directly with the applicable agent front end. Action store 620 is updated in response to feedback, performance data, and/or other signals received via any of the agent front ends 608, 610, 612, 614, the agent selection component 606, the agent library front end 602, and/or the environment 601, in some examples.
[00158] In FIG. 6, four agent front ends are shown for illustration purposes only. The multiagent system is capable of including any number of agent front ends, and the number of agent front ends is not limited to four. Similarly, in FIG.6 and other figures, the environment is capable of including any number of user devices, networks, sensing devices, and/or other electronic components.
[00159] The examples shown in FIG. 6 and the accompanying description are provided for illustration purposes. This disclosure is not limited to the described examples.
[00160] FIG. 7A, FIG. 7B, FIG. 7C, FIG. 7D illustrate examples of processes for agent configuration, including example depictions of graphical user interface elements, in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure. The user interfaces shown in FIG. 7A, FIG. 7B, FIG. 7C, FIG. 7D are presented by an agent system, in some examples. The user interface of FIG. 7A is presented via an agent library front end 602 and any one or more of the user interfaces of FIG. 7B, FIG. 7C, FIG. 7D is presented via an agent front end such as any of agent front ends 102, 608. 610, 612, 614. in some examples.
[00161] In the user interface examples shown in FIG. 7A, FIG. 7B, FIG. 7C, FIG. 7D, certain data that would normally be displayed via the user interface is anonymized for the purpose of this disclosure. In a live example, the actual data and not the anonymized version of the data would be displayed. For instance, the text '■CompanvName" would be replaced with a name of an actual company and “FirstName LastName” would be replaced with a user’s actual name.
[00162] The user interface elements shown in FIG. 7A, FIG. 7B, FIG. 7C, FIG. 7D are presented to a user by an application system, such as automated agent 902. In some examples, portions of the user interface elements are implemented as one or more web pages that are stored, e.g., at a user device, a server or in a cache of a user device, and then loaded into a display of a user device via the user device sending a page load request to the server or fetching data from the cache.
[00163] The graphical user interface control elements (e.g., fields, boxes, buttons, etc.) shown in the screen captures are implemented via software used to construct the user interface screens. While the screen captures illustrate examples of user interface components, e g., visual displays, buttons, input boxes, etc., this disclosure is not limited to the illustrated examples, or to visual displays, or to graphical user interfaces.
[00164] In FIG.7A, a user interface 700 illustrates an example of a display screen that is capable of being presented to a user via, e.g., agent library front end 602. The user interface 700 includes a search input box 702. A user has provided input 704 into the search input box 702, indicating a need for assistance with website creation. In response to the input 704, the user interface 700 presents an agent list 706 including service providers. In some examples, agent list 706 is generated by agent selection component 606 described with reference to FIG. 6. Each agent/service provider in the list includes one or more skills related to the search criteria of website creation. For instance, agent profile 708 indicates that the associated agent/service has agent skills 710 including web design, design strategy, and UX design, and further includes an agent description 714 indicating that the agent/service provider is supplemented with Al-based task execution capabilities. The agent profile 708 also includes a chat element 712 by which the user who entered the input 704 is capable of interacting directly with the agent/service provider.
[00165] In FIG.7B, a user interface 720 illustrates an example of a display screen that is capable of being presented to a service provider selected from, e.g., the agent list 706 of FIG. 7A. The user interface 720 includes a project description 722, a task list 724, a dialog 726 including dialog element 728 generated by an Al-based agent using task execution techniques described herein, dialog element 730 input by the selected service provider, and dialog element 732 generated by the Al-based agent in response to the input at dialog element 730. The task list 724 and/or dialog 726 is executable as part of, e.g.. a task determination/clarification process such as described with reference to FIG. 3.
[00166] In response to the dialog 726, the user interface 720 displays a list of available actionspecific agents 734 that map to tasks in the task list 724. The list of available action-specific agents is capable of being generated via an action determination process such as described with reference to FIG. 3. Each action specific agent includes an agent description 736 and an agent selection element 738. In some examples, the agent selection element 738 is capable of being implemented as a toggle element by which the service provider selects or unselects a particular action-specific agent for use in connection with the project description 722 and task list 724. [00167] The user interface 720 further provides a chat input box 740 by which the Al-backed service provider is capable of engaging in a dialog with one or more Al-based agents. In some examples, the service provider provides feedback via chat input box 740 and the feedback is used to generate action store updates, e.g., as described with reference to FIG. 4.
[00168] In FIG. 7C. a user interface 750 illustrates another example of a display screen that is capable of being presented to a service provider selected from, e.g., the agent list 706 of FIG. 7A.
The user interface 750 includes an agent management function 752, an agent sort function 754, and selectable view criteria 756. In response to a selection by the service provider of the view criteria 756 and sort function 754, the user interface 750 displays an agent list 758 of actionspecific agents. The agent list 758 includes a history of action-specific agents that the service provider has used. Each agent in the agent list 758 includes an agent description 760 and an agent selection element 762. Whereas the user interface 720 provides the service provider with the ability to toggle action-specific agents on and off for a particular project or task, the user interface 750 enables the service provider to enable or disable action-specific agents across multiple tasks or projects. The user interface 750 also provides a chat input box 764 by which the Al-backed sendee provider is capable of engaging in a dialog with one or more Al-based agents. In some examples, the service provider provides feedback via chat input box 740 that is used to generate action store updates, e.g., as described with reference to FIG. 4.
[00169] In FIG. 7D, a user interface 770 illustrates another example of a display screen that is capable of being presented to a service provider selected from, e.g., the agent list 706 of FIG. 7A.
The user interface 770 includes a project management function 772, a project sort function 774, and view criteria 776. In response to the project management function 772 and the view criteria 776, the user interface 770 displays a project list 778 of projects that are active for the service provider via the agent system. The project list 778 includes a number of projects such as project 780. Each project, e.g., project 780, includes a project title, e.g., project title 782, and a project status, e.g., project status 784. The user interface 770 also provides a chat input box 786 by which the Al-backed service provider engages in a dialog with one or more Al-based agents, in some examples. The service provider provides feedback via chat input box 786, and the feedback is used to generate action store updates, e.g., as described with reference to FIG. 4, in some examples.
[00170] The examples shown in FIG. 7A, FIG. 7B, FIG. 7C, FIG. 7D and the accompanying description are provided for illustration purposes. The illustrative examples are applicable to a smaller form factor such as smart phones, tablet computers, or wearable devices, and/or the user interfaces are adaptable to other forms of electronic devices, such as desktop computers and/or laptop devices, or vice versa. This disclosure is not limited to the described examples. [00171] FIG. 8A is a schematic diagram of an apparatus for action store management in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[00172] The apparatus 800 includes processing logic that includes hardware (e.g., processing device, circuitry, dedicated logic, programmable logic, microcode, hardware of a device, integrated circuit, etc.), software (e.g., instructions run or executed on a processing device), or a combination thereof. In some examples, the apparatus 800 includes computing system components shown in FIG. 1, FIG. 3, FIG.4, one or more components of computing system 900 of FIG. 9, or agent system 1280 of FIG. 12.
[00173] The apparatus 800 includes a processor 802, first memory 804 operably coupled to the processor 802, and second memory 810 operably coupled to the processor 802. Illustrative examples of processor 802 are described with reference to FIG. 14. Illustrative examples of memory7 804, 810 are described with reference to FIG. 11A, FIG. 11B. and FIG. 14.
[00174] The first memory 804 includes an action store 806. Illustrative examples of action store 806 are described with reference to FIG. 1, FIG. 3, FIG. 4, and FIG. 6. The action store 806 includes a hierarchical arrangement of memory layers and a plurality of actions stored in one or more of the memory7 layers. The action store stores first mappings among actions and second mappings among actions and memory layers. The first mappings among actions are hierarchical and an action is executable by an agent. Illustrative examples of hierarchical arrangements of memory layers, actions, and mappings are described with reference to FIG. 1, FIG. 2A, FIG. 2B, FIG. 2C, FIG. 5A, FIG. 5B, and FIG. 5C
[00175] The second memory7 includes an instruction 812. Illustrative examples of instructions 812 are described with reference to FIG. 14. The instruction 812 is to cause the processor 802 to create or update the first mappings, the second mappings, or the first mappings and the second mappings, in response to a signal received from the agent via a device. The signal indicates input including a task, feedback relating to an execution of one of the actions by the agent, and/or performance data associated with the action. Illustrative examples of updates based on signals, tasks, and actions are described with reference to FIG. 3 and FIG. 4.
[00176] In some examples, the action includes metadata and the metadata includes an indication of a security level associated with action, or a performance metric associated with the action, or the indication of the security level and the performance metric; and the instruction is to control access to the action according to the indication of the security level and a rule, or the performance metric and the rule; or the security level, the performance metric, and the rule.
[00177] In some examples, the first memory7 804 is indexed by computing an embedding of the action and mapping the embedding to the action stored in the action store. In some examples, the memory layers include a first layer storing a first action and a second layer storing a second action, where a first security policy is associated with the first layer, a second security policy, different from the first security policy, is associated with the second layer, and where the instruction is to cause the processor to control access to the first layer according to the first security' policy and control access to the second layer according to the second security policy.
[00178] In some examples, the instruction 812 is to cause the processor 802 to move the first action from the first layer to the second layer, move the second action from the second layer to the first layer, combine a plurality of actions into the first action, and/or expand the first action into a plurality of actions.
[00179] The examples shown in FIG.8A and the accompanying description, above are provided for illustration purposes. This disclosure is not limited to the described examples.
[00180] FIG. 8B is a flow diagram of an example method for agent-based task execution using an action store in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[00181] The method 820 is performed by processing logic that includes hardware (e.g., processing device, circuitry, dedicated logic, programmable logic, microcode, hardware of a device, integrated circuit, etc.), software (e.g., instructions run or executed on a processing device), or a combination thereof. In some examples, the method 820 is performed by the computing system components shoyvn in FIG. 1, FIG. 3, FIG. 4, one or more components of computing system 900 of FIG.9, or agent system 1280 of FIG. 12. Although shown in a particular sequence or order, unless otherwise specified, the order of the processes is modifiable. In some examples, the processes are performed in a different order, and/or some processes are performed in parallel. Additionally, one or more processes are omitted in some examples. Thus, not all processes are required in every’ example. Other process flows are possible.
[00182] At operation 822, the processing device uses an input to determine a task, where the input is obtained via a device and an agent accessible via the device. Illustrative examples of inputs and task determinations are described with reference to FIG. 3.
[00183] At operation 824, the processing device uses the task to search an action store, where the action store includes a hierarchical arrangement of actions executable by the agent. Illustrative examples of searching an action store and hierarchical arrangements of actions are described with reference to FIG. 2B, FIG. 2C, and FIG.3.
[00184] At operation 826, in response to determining that the action store includes an action that corresponds to the task, the processing device provides access to the action to the agent. Illustrative examples of providing access to actions to an agent are described with reference to FIG. 1, FIG.
3 and/or FIG. 4. At operation 828, the processing device triggers the agent to execute the action. Illustrative examples of triggering an agent to execute an action are described w ith reference to FIG. 1, FIG. 3 and/or FIG. 4 [00185] In some examples, the processing device provides the input and a first instruction to a machine learning model, where the first instruction is to cause the machine learning model to determine the task; and receives the task from the machine learning model in response to the first instruction.
[00186] In some examples, the processing device provides the task and a second instruction to the machine learning model, where the second instruction is to cause the machine learning model to identify the action that corresponds to the task using embedding-based retrieval retrieval-augmented generation, or embedding-based retrieval and retrieval-augmented generation; and receives the identified action from the machine learning model in response to the second instruction. In some examples, the second instruction is to instruct the machine learning model to determine requirements for performing the task and to determine whether the action is capable of performing the requirements.
[00187] In some examples, the processing device, in response to determining that the action is not capable of performing the requirements, provides the task and a third instruction to the machine learning model, where the third instruction is to cause the machine learning model to iteratively decompose the task into sub-tasks until the action is capable of performing the subtasks.
[00188] In some examples, the processing device provides the task and a fourth instruction to the machine learning model, where the fourth instruction is to cause the machine learning model to identify a plurality of actions that correspond to the task, rank the plurality of actions according to a first criterion associated with the task, and select the action from the ranked plurality of actions according to a second criterion associated with the task; and receives the selected action from the machine learning model in response to the fourth instruction. In some examples, the processing device, in response to determining that a value of a performance metric associated with a first version of the action stored in a first layer of a multi-layer memory meets or exceeds a performance criterion, provides access to the agent to execute the first version of the action from the first layer of the multi-layer memory.
[00189] In some examples, the agent is a fully autonomous physical robot or self-driving vehicle. In some examples, the processing device determines a mutability characteristic of the action, where the mutability characteristic is an indication of ability of the agent to self-mutate by executing the action; and the processing device uses the mutability characteristic to control the access to the action by the agent.
[00190] The examples shown in FIG.8B and the accompanying description, above are provided for illustration purposes. This disclosure is not limited to the described examples.
[00191] FIG. 8C is a flow diagram of an example method for action store management in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[00192] The method 840 is performed by processing logic that includes hardware (e.g., processing device, circuitry, dedicated logic, programmable logic, microcode, hardware of a device, integrated circuit, etc.), software (e.g., instructions run or executed on a processing device), or a combination thereof. In some examples, the method 840 is performed by the computing system components shown in FIG. 1, FIG. 3, FIG. 4, one or more components of computing system 900 of FIG.9, or agent system 1280 of FIG. 12. Although shown in a particular sequence or order, unless otherwise specified, the order of the processes is modifiable. In some examples, the processes are performed in a different order, and/or some processes are performed in parallel. Additionally, one or more processes are omitted in some examples. Thus, not all processes are required in every' example. Other process flows are possible.
[00193] At operation 842, the processing device receives a signal via an agent, where the signal relates to a first execution of a task by the agent using an action store, where the action store includes a hierarchical arrangement of memory layers, and where the action store includes a plurality of actions stored in one or more of the memory layers, and where the action store stores first mappings betw een actions and second mappings between actions and memory' layers, where the first mappings among actions are hierarchical and an action is executable by the agent. At operation 844. the processing device uses the signal to modify the action store. Illustrative examples of using signals to modify an action store are described with reference to FIG. 1 and FIG. 4
[00194] At operation 846, the processing device provides the modified portion of the action store to a second execution of the task by the agent. Illustrative examples of first and second executions are described with reference to FIG. 5A, FIG. 5B, and FIG. 5C.
[00195] In some examples, the processing device uses the signal to create or update the first mappings, the second mappings, or the first mappings and the second mappings.
[00196] In some examples, the processing device, in response to the signal, moves the action from a first layer of the memory layers to a second layer of the memory layers and/or moves the action from the second layer to the first layer.
[00197] In some examples, the processing device uses the signal and a trajectory' optimization mechanism to combine a plurality of actions into the action or expand the action into a plurality' of actions. In some examples, the task includes detecting and blocking malicious access to a cloud service and the agent is fully autonomous security software executing on a user computing device. In some examples, the agent is a fully autonomous physical robot or self-driving vehicle.
[00198] The examples shown in FIG.8C and the accompanying description, above are provided for illustration purposes. This disclosure is not limited to the described examples. [00199] FIG. 9 is a flow diagram of an example component-based method for configuring and/or operating an agent using components of an agent system in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[00200] The method is performed by processing logic that includes hardware (e.g., processing device, circuitry, dedicated logic, programmable logic, microcode, hardware of a device, integrated circuit, etc.), software (e.g., instructions run or executed on a processing device), or a combination thereof. In some examples, the method is performed by components of distributed multi-agent system 905, such as components or flows shown in FIG. 9 that are not specifically shown in other figures and/or components or flows shown in other figures that are not specifically- shown in FIG. 9. Although shown in a particular sequence, arrangement, or order, unless otherwise specified, the order and/or arrangement of the components and/or processes is modifiable. In some examples, the illustrated examples should be understood only as examples, and the illustrated processes are capable of being performed in a different order, and some processes are capable of being performed in parallel. Additionally, one or more processes are omitted in various examples. Thus, not all processes are required in every example. Other process flows are possible.
[00201] In FIG. 9, an example computing system 900 is shown, which includes an automated agent 902. The automated agent 902 is in communication with various elements of an environment 901, including a user device 901 A, a network 901B, and/or one or more sensing devices 901C. Examples of user devices 901 A include computing devices, such as laptop computers, smart phones, mobile computing devices, smart appliances, wearable devices, game controls, vehicle controls, etc. Examples of networks 901B include wireless, optical, and wired communication networks. Examples of sensors include motion sensors, load cells, force sensors, temperature sensors, and network sensors.
[00202] In some examples, the user device 901A is in communication with one or more applications 904 directly and/or via the automated agent 902. The automated agent 902 is supported by and in communication with one or more of the applications 904 and/or a distributed multi-agent system 905. In some examples, responsive to receiving input via one or more components of the environment 901, the automated agent 902 is dynamically configured or reconfigured to perform a task or a series of tasks, via one or more components of the distributed multi-agent system 905.
[00203] In the example of FIG. 9, the components of the computing system 900 are implemented using an application server or server cluster. In some examples, the computing system 900 includes a secure environment (e.g., secure enclave, encryption system, etc.) for the processing of data. In other examples, one or more components of the computing system 900 are implemented on a client device, such as a user system 1210, described herein with reference to FIG. 12. In some examples, some or all of computing system 900 is implemented directly on a user’s device or within an embedded system, thereby avoiding the need to communicate with servers over a network such as the Internet.
[00204] In some examples, the distributed multi-agent system 905 is in bidirectional communication with one or more applications 904, e.g., directly or via a computer network. In some examples, the one or more applications 904 include user interface functionality that is considered part of or is in communication with automated agent 902 and/or distributed multi-agent system 905. Illustrative, nonlimiting examples of applications that are included in the applications 904 in some examples include search engines 904A, social networks 904B, and/or domain applications 904C. Some examples include other applications alternatively or in addition to search engines 904A, social networks 904B, and domain applications 904C. In some examples, search engines 904A include general-purpose search engines such as Internet search engines and/or domain-specific search engines, e.g., search engines designed specifically for job searching or entity profile searching. In some examples, social networks 904B include general purpose social networks and/or domain-specific social networks such as professional or job-related social networks. Examples of domain applications 904C include user-facing applications such as job posting services, content distribution services, recruiting tools, ecommerce systems, email and messaging systems, enterprise applications, etc. Other examples of domain applications include embedded systems such as device control systems, e.g., navigation systems and robotic systems, as well as other types of sensor-based systems such as augmented reality and mixed reality systems.
[00205] In the example of FIG.9, the distributed multi-agent system 905 includes a plurality of sub-agents 906 A, 906B, ... , 906 A. a communication service 908, an adaptive machine learning service 910, and a multi-layer memory' structure 911. Any reference to N herein refers to an Ath element of a device, component, system, or process, where N is a positive integer and the value of N is variable depending on the context. For example, in FIG. 9, the computing system 900 includes N applications 904, N sub-agents 906, N memory layers, N context models, N artificial intelligence services 914, /V data resources 916, and A tools 918, where Ais capable of having the same value or different values for each or any reference to A.
[00206] The sub-agents 9906A, 9906B, ... . 906A cooperate and coordinate with each other to perform tasks on behalf of the user. In some examples, each sub-agent 906A, 906B, ... , 906Ahas an assigned role or function, such as a profile sub-agent, a planner sub-agent, a workflow subagent, a memory sub-agent, or any other sub-agent that is capable of communicating with the automated agent 902 in executing tasks and fulfilling user requests or goals. [00207] Any sub-agent 906A, 906B, ... , 106 V includes or is defined by a combination of computer code, data, memory, Al services 914, data resources 916, and/or tools 918, which are arranged or configured to perform a specific task or action. In some examples, a sub-agent 906A, 906B, ... , 106/Vhas or includes an associated agent profile, planner, workflow, and memory. The sub-agent’s memory is allocated to the sub-agent via the multi-layer memory structure 911. The sub-agent’s profile is capable of being pre-defined or configured dynamically using data obtained from one or more data resources 916. In some examples, the sub-agent’s profile references one or more registries 916B, which identify one or more of the workflows 916A, memories 912, Al services 914 and/or tools 918 that are accessible to the sub-agent and are usable by the sub-agent to perform the task identified in the sub-agent’s profile.
[00208] Portions of each or any of the sub-agents 906A, 906B, ... , 106/V communicate with each other and/or adaptive machine learning service 910, multi-layer memory structure 911, artificial intelligence services 914, data resources 916, tools 918, and with the automated agent 902, via a communication sendee 908. Communication service 908 facilitates data exchange and message passing among the components of the distributed multi-agent system 905 and/or components of the computing system 900. Examples of communication service 908 include asynchronous messaging capabilities, which, in some examples, include a publish and subscribe messaging protocol. In some examples, communication service 908 is implemented using, e.g., an agent framework or GAI application having containerized endpoints such as REST (representational state transfer) or gRPC (remote procedure call) that is capable of messaging. In some examples, use of asynchronous messaging is helpful for error handling by, for example, preventing infinite loops and enabling agent processes to be stopped at any time.
[00209] In some examples, the automated agent 902 or any sub-agent 906 A, 906B, ... , 106 V accesses and interfaces with an adaptive machine learning service 910. In some examples, a subagent invokes adaptive machine learning service 910 to determine whether a task, request, goal, or objective has been fulfilled and/or to determine whether to dynamically modify a task, workflow or plan. In some examples, adaptive machine learning service 910 includes or interfaces with one or more machine learning models including a Bayesian inference learning mechanism. In some examples, a Bayesian model is constructed that predicts a user’s likely responses to output produced by the automated agent 902, using historical examples of the user’s online activity to generate a prior probability distribution. In some examples, the automated agent 902 uses predictions of user behavior obtained via the Bayesian model to determine how to perform a task, which output to present to the user, and/or how to present output to the user. After the automated agent 902 performs a task and/or presents output to the user, based on the predictions obtained from the Bayesian model, the automated agent 902 monitors the user's actual response to the task performed and output produced by the automated agent 902. The user’s actual response is used to update the Bayesian model, e.g., to generate a posterior probability distribution of the user’s likely response. On the iteration or use of the sub-agent, the posterior probability distribution becomes the prior distribution from which updated predictions of user behavior are obtained.
[00210] In some examples, the automated agent 902 or any sub-agent 906 A, 906B. ... . 106 A' is implemented as a stateful, LM- and/or LLM- based multi-actor application with built-in persistent memory'. Some examples use LMs and/or LLMs in different contexts. Some examples use LMs to enable agents to perform discrete tasks. References to LLM herein are representative of some examples; in other examples, LMs are used alternatively or in addition to the LLMs.
[00211] Examples of tools that are usable to construct the automated agent 902 or any sub-agent 906A, 906B, ... , 106/V include directive acyclic graph (DAG)-based frameworks and cycle-based frameworks such as LANGGRAPH. In some examples, portions of multi-layer memory structures described herein are implemented using the persistent memory features of LANGGRAPH or other frameworks that enable the integrating of persistent memory with application processes and workflows.
[00212] Examples of the automated agent 902 or any sub-agent 906A, 906B, ... , 106/V include semi-autonomous cognitive artificial intelligence that leams through interactions with human users. Some examples are data-driven and include hierarchical planners, automatic prompt engineering, code generation, and API discovery. Some examples use a layered memory system implemented using persistent memory structures that is integrated into agents and workflows. In some examples, document databases, document-oriented databases, column-oriented data stores, or document stores, such as NOSQL document stores, are used to implement portions of the multilayered memory structures. In some examples, portions of the multi-layer memory structure are accessed, referenced, read from or written to using an abstract interface using, e.g., JSON path expressions. Examples operate asynchronously and are distributed, as described in more detail herein.
[00213] In some examples, task or action refers to an atomic action or operation that an agent or sub-agent is configured to perform, either alone or in combination with other tasks. Workflow refers to an arrangement, sequence, or series of tasks that can be used by an agent to respond to a request or complete a goal or objective, from which an agent selects one or more specific tasks to complete a request, goal, or objective. In some examples, given the same or similar request, goal, or objective, a workflow includes multiple different tasks that are selectable to complete the request, goal, or objective, depending upon the applicable context data. In some examples, a workflow provides an agent with multiple different options for how to complete a request, goal, or objective and the agent uses the currently provided context data to select from among those options in a given instance.
[00214] Workflows are capable of being generalized or task-specific. Examples of generalized workflows include workflows that build or update a context model, workflows that build or update an agent profile, and workflows that read and write data to and from portions of multi-layer memory structures (e.g.. to store user feedback in procedural memory). Another example of a generalized workflow is a workflow that obtains the inputs required to invoke an agent, e g., to obtain relevant context, interaction history, learned preferences, etc., to parameterize an action (e.g., a specific task of a workflow performed by an agent). The parameterization of actions enables the actions to be configured and customized dynamically using the most current relevant information. In some examples, when an action is invoked, a workflow is executed that obtains the relevant context, historical data, and learned preferences from memory and parameterizes the action with that information. Other examples of generalized workflows include workflows for performing adaptive machine learning processes to build context models (e.g., models of users and environments), updating semantic memory, and translating interaction experiences into procedural memory.
[00215] In some examples, plan refers to a specific arrangement, sequence, or series of tasks that have been selected by an agent from among one or more available workflow options to complete a task, goal, or objective. Given the same or similar request, goal, or objective, an agent selects one set of tasks to complete the request, goal, or objective in a first context and a different set of tasks to complete the same or similar request, goal, or objective in a second, different context, in some examples. A plan is capable of including a specific ordering of tasks, i.e., instructions as to which task the agent is to perform first, second, third, etc.
[00216] In some examples, the automated agent 902 or any sub-agent 906 A, 906B, ... , 1067V accesses and interfaces with one or more layers of multi-layer memory structure 911. In the example of FIG. 9, multi-layer memory7 structure 911 includes a plurality7 of layers, such as a working memory7 912A. an episodic memory 912B. and a collective memory 912C. In other examples, other types of memory layers are used and/or the number of memory layers is configurable depending upon the requirements of a particular design or implementation.
[00217] In some examples, each of automated agent 902 and every7 sub-agent 906A, 906B, ... , 906A has its own multi-layer memory structure 911 (e.g., keyed off the agent’s unique agent identifier).
[00218] In some examples, the different layers of multi-layer memory structure 911 store and manage different types of context models 913A, 913B, ... , 913A according to their respective scope, duration, relevance, and/or other criteria. In some examples, the working memory 912A stores context models 913A, 913B, ... . 913A that are related to the current dialog or task, the episodic memory 912B stores context models 913A, 913B, ... , 913/Vthat are related to previous dialogs or tasks, and the collective memory 912C stores context models 913A, 913B, ... , 913 that are related to general or domain knowledge.
[00219] A context model refers to a representation of the state or situation of the automated agent 902, the user, the application 904, or the dialog between the user and the automated agent 902, or a combination of any of the foregoing, at a particular instance, timestamp, or time interval associated with operation of the computing system 900 or automated agent 902, which is created with and/or includes context data. In some examples, a context model includes various types of information, such as preferences, policies, profile data, historical user activity data, sensor data, network data, model parameters, and/or any other data that is usable to configure an agent, workflow, plan, or task. Some examples create, initialize and/or update a context model for a user associated with an automated agent 902 by extracting information from the user’s online profile (e.g., a profile page and/or the user’s online activity history on a social network). In some examples of physical devices that are controlled by the automated agent 902, a context model includes sensor data collected via sensors associated with the physical devices and control signals generated by components of the devices.
[00220] Examples of context data include data logged during a user’s use of an automated agent 902 and/or one or more applications 904. such as data input, output, or interacted with, the timestamp at the user’s login in to the application, and actions taken by the user during the login session, including implicit and/or explicit user interactions with the application’s user interface elements. Alternatively or in addition, context data refers to historical data logged during the user’s prior uses of one or more applications and/or aggregate data that represents usage statistics across a group or population of users of the application. In some examples, context data includes implicit signals such as a count of the number of times content has been presented to the user, the number of times users interacted with content provided by the system, or the latency in the user’s response to content. In some examples, context data includes explicit signals such as explicit reactions (e.g.. thumbs-up, thumbs-down, comments, shares, follows) and/or other explicit or implicit feedback signals. In some examples, context data is used to dynamically configure agents, workflows, tasks, and plans.
[00221] The number of context models is not limited and is configurable depending upon the requirements of a particular design or implementation. Any portions of any one or more of context models 913A, 913B, 913C are capable of being stored in any one or more of the memory layers 912A, 912B, 912C. In some examples, a first context model including data from device 901 A is stored in working memory 912A while a second context model including data from network 90 IB and/or one or more sensors 901C is in episodic memory 912B and a third context model including data from one or more automated agents 902 or sub-agents 906A, 906B, , 906/V is stored in collective memory 912C.
[00222] In some examples, a first context model including a first combination of data obtained from device 901A, network 901B, and/or sensors 901C over a first time interval is stored in working memory 912A while a second context model including a second combination of data obtained from device 901A, network 901B, and/or sensors 901C over a second time interval is stored in episodic memory' 912B and a third context model including a third combination of data obtained from device 901 A, network 901B, and/or sensors 901C over athird time interval is stored in collective memory 912C. where the first, second, and third context models, combinations of data, and/or time intervals are respectively different.
[00223] Also or alternatively, different portions of the multi-layer memory structure 111 are capable of being used to store context data for different automated agents 902 and/or sub-agents 906A, 906B, ... , 9067V. In some examples, different portions of the working memory 912A and/or episodic memory' 912B are used to store context data for different automated agents 902 and/or different portions of the collective memory' 912C are used to store context data and/or output generated by one or more sub-agents 906A, 906B, ... , 9067V. In some examples, if an action performed by a first sub-agent 906A, 906B, ... , 906 A' is dependent upon output of an action of a second sub-agent 906A, 906B, ... , 9067V, collective memory 912C is used to store the output of the second-sub-agent in a memory layer that is accessible by the first sub-agent.
[00224] Any one or more of automated agent 902, applications 904 and/or portions of distributed multi-agent system 905 is capable of interfacing or communicating with any one or more of artificial intelligence (Al) services 914, data resources 916, and/or tools 918 either directly or via a communication service 908 that provides artificial intelligence (Al) services 914 and data resources 916 to the automated agent 902. Any of the Al sendees 914, data resources 916, and/or tools 918 is capable of being a component of the distributed multi-agent system 905 or a separate component, such as a hosted service.
[00225] The Al services 914 include various types of machine learning models and/or algorithms that are capable of enhancing the capabilities and performance of the automated agent 902, such as but not limited to one or more large language models (LLMs) 914A, Bayesian inference learning (BIL) models 914B, and machine learning (ML) models 914C, or any other Al service that are capable of providing, for instance, natural language understanding, natural language generation, dialog management, task execution, intent classification, entity extraction, information extraction, code generation, embedding generation models, similarity' prediction, scoring, and/or any other function related to the operation of the automated agent 902 or any subagent. [00226] A large language model 914A has an associated model type, architecture, and configuration, associated arguments, and associated micro-prompts, where the arguments are placeholders for information, such as context data, to be inserted into the micro-prompts. Microprompts are LLM prompts that are tailored for domain- or task-specific (e.g., fine-tuned) language models. In some examples, a micro-prompt includes a particular combination or arrangement of instructions, constraints, examples, and/or parameters or arguments that is configured specifically to cause a particular domain- or task-specific language model to produce a particular type of output while avoiding or reducing the risk of Al hallucination. In some examples, a micro-prompt is configured to cause a language model to perform a specific atomic action such as to generate a query to access one or more layers of a layered memory structure, or to map data retrieved from a layered memory structure to arguments of another prompt.
[00227] In some examples, a language model or large language model type, architecture, and configuration includes one or more neural network-based machine learning models. In some examples, a large language model 914Ais constructed using a neural network-based deep learning model architecture. In some examples, the neural network-based architecture includes one or more input layers that receive model inputs, generate one or more embeddings based on the model inputs, and pass the one or more embeddings to one or more other layers of the neural network. In other examples, the one or more embeddings are generated based on the model input by a preprocessor, the embeddings are input to the neural network model, and the neural network model generates output based on the embeddings.
[00228] In some examples, the neural network-based machine learning model architecture includes one or more self-attention layers that allow the model to assign different weights to portions of the model input. Alternatively or in addition, the neural network architecture includes feed-forward layers and residual connections that allow the model to machine-leam complex data patterns including relationships between different portions of the model input in multiple different contexts. In some examples, the neural network-based machine learning model architecture is constructed using a transformer-based architecture that includes self-attention layers, feedforward layers, and residual connections between the layers. The exact number and arrangement of layers of each type as well as the hyperparameter values used to configure the model are determined based on the requirements of a particular design or implementation of the distributed multi-agent system 905.
[00229] In some examples, the neural network-based machine learning model architecture includes or is based on one or more generative transformer models, one or more generative pretrained transformer (GPT) models, one or more bidirectional encoder representations from transformers (BERT) models, one or more language models (LMs), one or more large language models (LLMs), one or more XLNet models, and/or one or more other natural language processing (NL) models. In some examples, the neural network-based machine learning model architecture includes or is based on one or more predictive text neural models that receive text input and generate one or more outputs based on processing the text with one or more neural network models. Examples of predictive neural models include, but are not limited to, Generative Pre-Trained Transformers (GPT), BERT, and/or Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs). In some examples, one or more types of neural network-based machine learning model architectures include or are based on one or more multimodal neural networks capable of outputting different modalities (e.g., text, image, sound, etc.) separately and/or in combination based on textual input. Accordingly, in some examples, a multimodal neural network implemented in the agent system is capable of outputting digital content that includes a combination of two or more of text, images, video or audio.
[00230] In some examples, a large language model 914A is trained on a large dataset of digital content such as natural language text, images, videos, audio files, or multi-modal data sets. For example, training samples of digital content such as natural language text extracted from publicly available data sources are used to train one or more generative models used by the agent system. The size and composition of the datasets used to train one or more models used by the agent system are variable according to the requirements of a particular design or implementation of the agent system. In some examples, one or more of the datasets used to train one or more models used by the agent system includes hundreds of thousands to millions or more different training samples.
[00231] In some examples, one or more models used by the agent system include multiple generative models trained on differently sized datasets. In some examples, an agent system includes a comprehensive but low capacity generative model that is trained on a large data set. In some examples, the same generative model includes a less comprehensive but high capacity model that is trained on a smaller data set, and the high capacity model is used to generate outputs based on examples obtained from the low capacity model. In some examples, reinforcement learning is used to further improve the output of one or more models used by the agent system. In reinforcement learning, ground-truth examples of desired model output are paired with respective inputs, and these input-example output pairs are used to train or fine tune one or more models.
[00232] In some examples, prompt refers to one or more instructions that are readable by a GAI model, such as a large language model 914A, along with the input to which the GAI model is to apply the instructions, and a set of parameter values that constrain the operations of the GAI model during the processing of the prompt and generating and outputting a response to the prompt. In some examples, the prompt input includes user input and/or context data. In some examples, the prompt input is specified explicitly in the prompt or as a reference that is processed at execution time. In some examples, the prompt instructions include one or more statements, questions, conditions, constraints, or prompt examples. Some instructions include prompt examples, which are illustrative examples of the types of output to be produced by the GAI model and/or examples of the types of processing steps the large language model is to perform in order to generate output.
[00233] In some examples, the parameter values contained in the prompt are specified by the GAI model and are adjustable in accordance with the requirements of a particular design or implementation. Examples of parameter values include the maximum length or size of the prompt and the temperature, or degree to which the model produces deterministic output versus random output. The way in which the elements of the prompt are organized and the phrasing used to articulate the prompt elements is capable of significantly affecting the output produced by the GAI model in response to the prompt. In some examples, a small change in the prompt content or structure is capable of causing the GAI model to generate a very different output.
[00234] Zero-shot prompt refers to a type of large language model prompt that does not include any prompt examples, e.g., the prompt only includes an input and a task description that does not include any examples to guide the large language model as to how to perform the task. An example of a zero-shot prompt is ‘‘classify the user input [inputl] into action_a, action_b. or action_c,'’ where [inputl] is a placeholder for the user input and/or associated context data and action a, action_b, and action_c are possible intents into which the large language model is capable of classifying inputl. A few-shot prompt includes examples along with an instruction to cause the large language model to follow the examples provided when processing an input. An example of a few-shot prompt is “‘software engineering' -^ job search; ‘fill’ job_candidate_search; what is the intent of [inputl]?” where ‘software engineering’ job_search and ‘fill’ — > j ob candidate search are examples of how to classify inputs into search categories, and inputl includes user input and/or context data.
[00235] In some examples, a chain-of-thought prompt refers to a type of large language model prompt that includes an input and a prompt example that includes the types of steps the large language model is to perform, such as intermediate steps or reasoning. In some examples, the chain-of-thought prompt includes a series of steps that illustrate to the large language model a process for how to select functions or logical groupings of functions to be included in a plan.
[00236] The data resources 916 include various types of data or information that are capable of being used by the automated agent 902, any sub-agent 906 A, 906B, ... , 906A, any of the Al services 914, or any of the tools 918. Examples of data resources 916 include but are not limited to workflows 916A, registries 916B, data stores 916C, and/or any other data resource that provides knowledge, facts, rules, policies, preferences, or any other information related to the applications 904, the user, the environment 901, and/or the domain of the automated agent 902.
[00237] Registries 916B include, e.g., fdes, lookup tables, or databases that store information about which Al services 914, data resources 916, and/or tools 918 are accessible to a particular automated agent 902. In some examples, different automated agents 902 have different associated registries 916B and the contents of the same type of registry is different for different automated agents (e g., the contents of respective workflow registries is different for different agents). Data stores 916C include but are not limited to embedding data stores or vector stores (e.g., data stores that store embeddings, i.e., compressed or vector representations of data) and/or other kinds of searchable data stores.
[00238] The data resources include, alternatively or additionally, entity profde data (e.g., profde data for a device, robot, vehicle, network, etc., company profiles, job postings, etc.), activity data (e.g., historical interaction data such as search histories, chat histories, and/or interaction histories associated with the user's use of applications 904), digital content, including documents and other content items that are accessible via Internet search engines, such as web pages and multimedia content, taxonomies, data stores, services, or artificial intelligence models, entity graphs and knowledge graphs, applications 904, such as other vertical applications and/or external applications which are in communication with the automated agent 902, and metrics, such as performance metrics associated with an Al service, such as a large language model, or any of the data resources or tools. Entity profile data includes current and/or historical attribute data associated with the user (e.g., user preferences and/or biographical data such as skills, work experiences, and education history) or another entity associated with the user (such as a company or a computing resource).
[00239] The tools 918 include various types of software and/or hardware components that facilitate operation of the automated agent 902 and/or the interaction of the automated agent 902 with the Al sen ices 914 and/or the data resources 916. Examples of tools 918 include but are not limited to application programming interfaces (APIs) 918A, search tools 918B, functions 918C, or any other software and/or hardware component that provide access, retrieval, processing, or manipulation of data or information for the automated agent 902.
[00240] In operation, the distributed multi-agent system 905 creates and initializes an instance of the automated agent 902 in response to one or more inputs, signals, or events obtained from the environment 901, in cooperation with one or more applications 904, if applicable, and using one or more Al services 914, data resources 916, and/or tools 918. The automated agent 902 receives input expressed as structured language and/or conversational natural language, such as text, speech, or gesture. The input indicates a request, a command, a query, feedback, or any other type of input. The input is capable of being associated with context data, such as a timestamp, a geographic location, a device, network, or session identifier, a topic, a goal, or any other information that is capable of affecting the interpretation of the input by the automated agent 902 or the response generated by the automated agent 902 to the input.
[00241] To generate a response to the input, the automated agent 902 invokes one or more subagents of the distributed multi-agent system 905. In some examples, a planner sub-agent of the distributed multi-agent system 905 is invoked to generate a plan for responding to the input using as input a workflow, a profile, and a context model obtained from one or more of the memory layers. In some examples, the plan includes a plurality' of actions that need to be performed (e.g., in sequence or in parallel), where each action has an associated action sub-agent. In some examples, each action sub-agent operates in a similar manner as the planner sub-agent. An action sub-agent generates a sub-plan for performing its assigned action in a similar manner as the planner sub-agent generates the plan, in some examples. Thus, the distributed multi-agent system 905 is capable of providing hierarchical planning in which any plan is capable of being expanded to include a plurality of sub-plans, where each sub-plan is performed by a sub-agent and the output is returned to the planner agent or the calling sub-agent, as the case may be. At any level of the planning hierarchy, the respective agent 902 or sub-agent 906 coordinates the generation and execution of the respective plan and any sub-plans.
[00242] The examples shown in FIG. 9 and the accompanying description, above are provided for illustration purposes. This disclosure is not limited to the described examples.
[00243] FIG. 10 is a flow diagram of an example method for creating and configuring an automated agent using components of an agent system in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[00244] The method is performed by processing logic that includes hardware (e.g., processing device, circuitry', dedicated logic, programmable logic, microcode, hardware of a device, integrated circuit, etc.), software (e.g., instructions run or executed on a processing device), or a combination thereof. In some examples, the method is performed by components of distributed multi-agent system 905, including components or flows shown in FIG. 10 that are not specifically shown in other figures and/or including components or flows shown in other figures that are not specifically shown in FIG. 10. Although shown in a particular sequence or order, unless otherwise specified, the order of the processes is modifiable. Thus the illustrated processes are performed in a different order, and/or some processes are performed in parallel, in some examples. Additionally, one or more processes are omitted in various examples. Thus, not all processes are required in every example. Other process flows are possible.
[00245] In FIG. 10, the example method is performed by components of an automated agent system 1000. The automated agent system 1000 includes one or more components of an environment 1001, such as a user device or system 201 A, a network 20 IB, and one or more sensors 201C, one or more messaging services 1010, one or more data resources 1026, artificial intelligence (Al) sendees 1030, and tools 1032.
[00246] The one or more messaging services 1010 is or includes portions of communication service 908. In some examples, the one or more messaging services 1010 facilitates data exchange and message passing among the components of the automated agent system 1000. Examples of the one or more messaging services 1010 include asynchronous messaging capabilities, which are capable of being implemented using a publish and subscribe messaging protocol. In some examples, the one or more messaging services 1010 are implemented using, e.g.. an agent framework or GAI application having dockerized endpoints such as REST (representational state transfer) or gRPC (remote procedure call) that are capable of messaging. Use of asynchronous messaging is often helpful for error handling by, for example, preventing infinite loops and enabling agent processes to be stopped at any time.
[00247] The one or more data resources 1026 include portions of data resources 916. In some examples, the data resources 1026 include various types of data or information that are used by the automated agent 1012, any sub-agent, any of the Al services 1030, or any of the tools 1032. Examples of data resources 1026 include but are not limited to workflows, registries, data stores, and/or any other data resource that provide knowledge, facts, rules, policies, preferences, or any other information related to one or more applications, the user, the environment 1001, and/or the domain of the automated agent 1012.
[00248] The artificial intelligence (Al) services 1030 include portions of Al services 914. In some examples, the Al services 1030 include various types of machine learning models and/or algorithms that enhance the capabilities and performance of the automated agent 902, such as but not limited to one or more large language models (LLMs), Bayesian inference learning (BIL) models, machine learning (ML) models, or any other Al service that provide, for instance, natural language understanding, natural language generation, dialog management, task execution, intent classification, entity extraction, information extraction, code generation, embedding generation models, similarity prediction, scoring, and/or any other function related to the operation of the automated agent 1012 or any sub-agent.
[00249] The tools 1032 include portions of tools 918. In some examples, the tools 1032 include various types of software and/or hardware components that facilitate operation of the automated agent 1012 and/or the interaction of the automated agent 1012 with the Al services 1030 and/or the data resources 1026. Examples of tools 1032 include but are not limited to application programming interfaces (APIs), search tools, functions, or any other software and/or hardware component that provide access, retrieval, processing, or manipulation of data or information for the automated agent 1012.
[00250] In the automated agent 1000, planner agents, such as adaptive machine learning-based orchestrator 1016, each are interwoven with a multi-layer memory structure 1018, which allows the planner agents to maintain their own state (where a state includes a pointer or reference to a portion of the multi-layer memory 1018). When a planner agent generates a plan, micro-prompts represent actions within the state of the plan.
[00251] One or more signals generated by the environment 1001 are capable of triggering a start automated agent process 1002. In some examples, a login to an application 904 generates a session identifier (ID). The session ID provides continuity across multiple interactions involving one or more of the components of the environment 1001. The start automated agent process 1002 is launched by, e.g., a sub-agent of the distributed multi-agent system 905, in response to a session ID. In some examples, if input from the environment 1001 satisfies a condition or threshold criteria, which is capable of being stored in and retrieved from the multi-layer memory 1018, the start automated agent process 1002 obtains or creates an agent identifier (e.g., the agent ID includes the session ID). The process 1002 passes the agent ID to a create instance of automated agent process 1008 via flow 1005 and also passes the agent ID to messaging service 1010 via flow 1006.
[00252] The process 1008 creates and launches an instance of an automated agent, e.g., automated agent 902, which is dynamically configured based on the signal(s) from the environment 1001 and/or context data obtained via the multi-layer memory 1018. The create instance of automated agent process 1008 includes one or more sub-processes that, e.g., load data into data registries 1024. initialize messaging service 1010. and create the instance of the automated agent based on the data loaded into the data registries 1024. For example, the process 1008 uses the agent ID obtained from the process 1002 to look up the sub-agents, models, microprompts, planners, skills, etc., that are accessible to that agent ID, and loads that information into the registries 1024. In some examples, the registry’ data is organized according to data type; e.g., a registry 1 1024a stores model identifiers of LLMs and/or other Al services 1030 or tools 1032 that are accessible to the agent ID, a registry 2 1024b stores micro-prompt identifiers of microprompts that are accessible to the agent ID, and one or more additional registries N 1024c store skill identifiers, planner identifiers, or identifiers of data resources 1026 that are accessible to the agent ID. Accessible to as used herein means that a particular instance of an automated agent (e.g., the instance identified by the agent ID) has permission to access and use the components identified in the registry. In some examples, whether the instance has permission is determined by querying one or more policies, portions of which are stored in data resources 1026 and/or multi-layer memory 1018. Since the registries are populated at the time of instance creation, the contents of the registries is dynamic and is capable of being changed or updated from one instance to the next, e.g., based on the then-current signals from the environment 1001 and/or data obtained from the multi-layer memory7 1018 and/or data resources 1026.
[00253] Automated agent 1012 is a representation of the automated agent instance created by process 1008. The automated agent 1012 is defined by and includes an agent definition 1014, adaptive machine learning-based orchestrator 1016, multi-layer memory 1018, router 1022, and data registries 1024. In some examples, the agent definition 1014 includes information used to initialize the instance, such as an initial LLM prompt, an agent identifier of an agent that is configured to execute an initialization routine (e.g., an onboarding process), a user identifier, e.g., a user ID that identifies a profile page, an initial workflow identifier (e.g., an onboarding workflow), an action type (e.g., onboarding), and one or more action identifiers, which identify actions in the initial workflow. Examples of identifiers or IDs include unique identifiers, such as numeric or alphanumeric codes and URIs (uniform resource identifiers).
[00254] Adaptive machine learning-based orchestrator 1016 includes or invokes an Al service 1030, such as an LLM, that controls the operation of the automated agent 1012 during the instance created by process 1008. For example, the orchestrator 1016 generates and executes a plan that manages the execution of actions, workflows, and adaptive machine learning processes by automated agent 1012 to accomplish a goal, perform a task, or achieve an objective. The plan generated and executed by the orchestrator is based on one or more workflows 1004, which are accessible to the orchestrator 1016 via flows 236a, 236b, and messaging service 1010. The dashed lines in flows 236a and 236b indicate that the one or more workflows 1004 are capable of being dynamically retrieved, queried or updated during the operation of automated agent 1012. In the course of executing a plan, the orchestrator 1016 communicates requests for tools 1032 and/or Al services 1030 to router 1022.
[00255] Multi-layer memory' 1018 includes a multi-layer memory structure that includes, for example, memory 1 1020a, memory 2 1020b, memory 3, 1020c, and memory N 220d. In some examples, each of these memories or memory layers is configured to store different types of data. In some examples, memory 1 1020a is configured as a working memory7, memory 2 1020b is configured as an episodic memory7, memory73 is configured as a long-term memory7, and memory' N 22d includes various ty pes of collective memory, such as swarm collective memory7, host collective memory, and global collective memory. Various types and configurations of multi-layer memory structures are shown in FIG. 11A, and FIG. 11B, described below. Each or any of the layers or memories of the multi-layer memory' 1018 is configured to obtain data from one or more data resources 1026, such as content databases and/or embedding stores or vector databases. Because the memories or memory layers are integrated with the planners and workflows, the memory accesses occur in the context of those planners and respective workflows.
[00256] Router 1022 controls access to and invocation of tools 1032 and/or Al services 1030 by the automated agent 1012. In some examples, in operation, router 1022 receives requests for tools and/or Al services from orchestrator 1016 via flow 1038. Router 1022 validates the requests (e.g., by checking the message type of the request against a policy or directory of valid message types). If the request is valid, router 1022 checks to make sure the tool and/or Al services requested by the request is accessible to the automated agent 1012. For example, router 1022 queries one or more of the data registries 1024 to see if the tool and/or Al service identified in the request matches a tool and/or Al service listed in the registries 1024. If the request is valid and the requested tool or Al service is accessible to the automated agent 1012, the router 1022 invokes the requested tool or Al service via flow 1040, e.g., by including the tool or Al service identifier in an invocation thread 1028, along with any necessary arguments and micro-prompts.
[00257] When an Al service 1030 or tool 1032 completes its execution in response to an invocation thread 1028, portions of the tool or Al service response are stored in a memory or memory layer of multi-layer memory 1018 via flow 1042, e.g., via a memory path, which is identified by a reference or pointer embedded within the respective invocation thread 1028, in some examples. Alternatively or in addition, portions of the tool or Al service response are communicated back to orchestrator 1016 via flow 1044, messaging service 1010. and flow 1034.
[00258] The examples shown in FIG. 10 and the accompanying description, above are provided for illustration purposes. This disclosure is not limited to the described examples.
[00259] FIG. 11A is a flow diagram of an example of a layered memory structure for an automated agent in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[00260] The method is performed by processing logic that includes hardware (e.g., processing device, circuitry, dedicated logic, programmable logic, microcode, hardware of a device, integrated circuit, etc.), software (e.g., instructions run or executed on a processing device), or a combination thereof. In some examples, the method is performed by components of distributed multi-agent system 905, including components or flows shown in FIG. 11A that are not specifically shown in other figures and/or including components or flows shown in other figures that are not specifically shown in FIG. 11A. Although shown in a particular sequence or order, unless otherwise specified, the order of the processes is modifiable. The illustrated processes are performed in a different order, and/or some processes are performed in parallel, in some examples. Additionally, one or more processes are omitted in some examples. Thus, not all processes are required in every' example. Other process flows are possible.
[00261] The layered memory' structure 1100 of FIG. 11A includes a working memory 1102, a long-term memory 1110, and a collective memory 1120. In the example of FIG. 11A, working memory 1102 is capable of storing and managing information such as task context 1104 and communications 1106. Context models, described above, are examples of task context 1104. Messages, such as inter-process messages and other communications between components of the computing system (e.g., computing system 900) are examples of communications 1106. Additionally or alternatively, working memory 1102 stores and manages other types of data alone or in combination with one or more of task context 1104 or communications 1106.
[00262] Long-term memory 1110, in the example of FIG. 11A, includes a knowledge memory 1112, a procedural memory 1114. and an episodic memory' 1116. Additionally or alternatively, long-term memory 1110 includes other types of memory alone or in combination with one or more of knowledge memory 1112, procedural memory 1114, or episodic memory 1116.
[00263] Long-term memory 1110 is capable of storing and managing information such as compressed versions of data stored in working memory 1102. In some examples, episodic memory 1116 stores and manages, e.g., embeddings or other compressed forms of task context 1104, communications 1106, and/or other information stored in working memory. In some examples, if a user updates their online profile multiple times during the course of a time interval, those updates are summarized and stored in episodic memory' 1116.
[00264] In some examples, long-term memory 1110 stores and manage learnings resulting from agent executions of adaptive machine learning processes. These learnings are grouped into different memory' layers, such as knowledge memory 1112 and procedural memory 1114, in some examples. Portions of long-term memory 1110 that store and manage semantic information and procedural information are sometimes referred to as knowledge memory' and procedural memory, respectively.
[00265] An example of semantic information is a synonym, definition or explanation of a word or phrase. For instance, the job title “senior software engineer” is sometimes associated by a particular user with a certain group of skills, such as Java, PYTHON, data science, neural networks, etc. The semantic information is customizable for each individual user. In some examples, two or more users who work for different companies have different, personalized meanings or definitions for “senior software engineer,” and these multiple different meanings or definitions are stored and maintained in respective long-term memories 1110 associated with the respective users.
[00266] An example of procedural information is a sequence of steps associated with a particular task. In some examples, two or more users who are both recruiters each prefer a different sequence of steps for performing a job search or other recruiting task. These different task definitions, which are capable of being different in terms of the types of steps that are included and/or the order of the steps, are stored and maintained in respective long-term memories associated with the respective users.
[00267] The arrows between the working memory 1102, long-term memory 1110, and collective memory 1120 indicate one potential method of moving data between the memories 1102, 1110, 1120. In some examples, context data such as user preference and/or activity information is initially stored in working memory 1102. then moved from working memory 1102 to long-term memory 1110, then moved from long-term memory 1110 to collective memory 1120, in accordance with memory processing workflows. Other process flows are possible; e.g., some information is moved directly from working memory 1102 to collective memory 1120, in some examples.
[00268] Specialized agents (e.g., one or more sub-agents 906) are configurable to perform memory management operations, such as an operation to compress data obtained from working memory7 1102 and store the compressed data in another memory layer (e.g.. long-term memory' 1110 or collective memory 1120), and/or an operation to search one or more of the memory layers for information and extract data that matches the search criteria from the respective memory layers in which the information matching the query is stored. In some examples, a specialized agent for a memory' management operation is defined by a specialized memory' management workflow that contains only the tasks required to perform the particular memory management operation and/or a specialized micro-prompt that, for example, contains an instruction that instructs an LLM to generate and output a plan that is executable to perform the particular memory' management operation.
[00269] The examples shown in FIG. 11A and the accompanying description, above are provided for illustration purposes. This disclosure is not limited to the described examples.
[00270] FIG. 11B is a flow diagram of an example of a layered memory structure for an automated agent in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[00271] The method is performed by processing logic that includes hardware (e g., processing device, circuitry, dedicated logic, programmable logic, microcode, hardware of a device, integrated circuit, etc.), software (e.g., instructions run or executed on a processing device), or a combination thereof. In some examples, the method is performed by components of distributed multi-agent system 905, including components or flows shown in FIG. 11B that are not specifically shown in other figures and/or including components or flows shown in other figures that are not specifically shown in FIG. 11B. Although shown in a particular sequence or order, unless otherwise specified, the order of the processes is modifiable. The illustrated processes are performed in a different order, and/or some processes are performed in parallel, in some examples. Additionally, one or more processes are omitted in some examples. Thus, not all processes are required in every example. Other process flows are possible. [00272] In the example of FIG. 11B, a multi-layered memory structure 1150 includes N memory layers, each of which is associated with a different access level. In some examples, access level refers to the ability of various systems, components, resources, models, users, processes, devices, etc. to read and/or write data to and/or from a particular memory layer of the multi-layered memory structure 1150. The assignment of access levels to the various systems, components, resources, models, users, processes, devices, etc., is customizable based on the requirements or design of a particular implementation of the computing system. In some examples, access level 1 memory 1152 has an associated access level 1 that is the most restrictive and therefore acts as a gateway for one or more other memory layers, such that permission is granted to read and/or write to access level 2 memory 1154 and/or access level N memory 1156 only to systems, components, resources, models, users, processes, devices, etc., that satisfy the access level 1 requirements. In some examples, access level N memory 1156 has an associated access level N that is least restrictive in that many different agents (and not just a single agent) are granted permission to access that memory.
[00273] The arrows between the access level 1 memory 1152, access level 2 memory 1154, and access level N memory 1156 indicate one potential method of moving data (e.g., context data) between the memories. In some examples, information is initially stored in access level 1 memory' 1152, then moved from access level 1 memory 1152 to access level 2 memory 1154. then moved from access level 2 memory 1154 to access level N memory 1156. Other process flows are possible; e.g., some information is moved directly from access level 1 memory' 1152 to access level N memory' 1156, in some examples.
[00274] In some examples, specialized agents (e.g., one or more sub-agents 906) are configured to perform memory' management operations, such as an operation to compress data obtained from access level 1 memory' 1152 and store the compressed data in another memory' layer (e.g., access level 2 memory' 1154 and/or access level N memory' 1156), and/or an operation to search one or more of the memory layers for information and extract data that matches the search criteria from the respective memory layers in which the information matching the query' is stored. In some examples, a specialized agent for a memory management operation is defined by a specialized memory' management workflow that contains only the tasks required to perform the particular memory management operation and/or a specialized micro-prompt that, for example, contains an instruction that instructs an LLM to generate and output a plan that is executable to perform the particular memory management operation.
[00275] Layered memory structures such as those shown in FIG. 11A and FIG. 11B are allocated or assigned to specific agents, in some examples. When an instance of an automated agent is created, such as described in connection with FIG. 10, a multi-layered memory structure (or a portion thereof) is allocated for use by that instance of the automated agent, and that memory structure is initialized, populated or updated at instance creation and/or during or as a result of execution of the automated agent in that instance. When a different instance of an automated agent is created, whether associated with the same user or a different user, a different multi-layered memory structure (or a portion thereof) is allocated for use by that instance of the automated agent, and that memory structure is initialized, populated or updated at instance creation and/or during or as a result of execution of the automated agent in that instance.
[00276] The examples shown in FIG. 11B and the accompanying description, above are provided for illustration purposes. This disclosure is not limited to the described examples.
[00277] Multi-layer memory structures such as the examples shown in FIG. 11A and/or FIG.
11B are capable of being implemented using, e.g., one or more storage trees, storage stacks, and/or path templates with, for example, a higher-order resolver, where the path templates are resolved at runtime. Multi-layer memory structures such as the examples shown in FIG. 11A and/or FIG.
11B are capable of being queried using, e.g., argument names and/or strings and a semantic search or a RAG (retrieval-augmented generation) approach. In some examples, policies specify whether the contents of one memory' layer overrides another memory' layer in a given instance, task, or workflow-. In some examples, a policy (e.g., a corporate policy) instructs the query' to use information obtained from a collective memory instead of information obtained from a personal or private memory, in the context of an action whose output is accessible to a team of agents. In some examples, memory is queried across all layers and then the most relevant portions of the retrieved information are selected and extracted from the query results and mapped to their respective arguments in the action call. An LLM or other type of model or tool is capable of being used to map the relevant portions of the retrieved information to their respective arguments. In some examples, the information retrieved by querying is included in an LLM prompt (e.g., a micro-prompt) that has been specially configured to cause an LLM to perform the specific task of function calling, and then the prompt is passed to the LLM which maps the information to arguments and generates the function call.
[00278] In some examples, memory structures and/or processes described with reference to FIG. 11A and/or FIG. 11B are used to determine and manage memory operations using an order of precedence. In some examples, an order of precedence is determined by querying a policy or a registry associated with an agent. In some examples, a first order of precedence is specified for an agent that is included in a group of agents that collectively performs a task, and a second order of precedence is specified for an agent that is not part of a group of agents. In some examples, the order of precedence is implemented as weight values that are applied to data retrieved from different memory layers. In some examples, data retrieved from working memory is weighted more highly than data retrieved from episodic or long-term memory or collective memory depending on its relevance to the current task, objective, goal, or intent. In some examples, data retrieved from episodic or long-term memory or collective memory is weighted more highly than data retrieved from working memory depending on its relevance to the current task, objective, goal, or intent. In some examples, order of precedence is determined using access levels. Agents that are part of a group are capable of accessing collective memory associated with an individual agent but not capable of accessing other memory layers associated with that agent, while the individual agent itself is capable of accessing all of its respective memory' layers, in some examples.
[00279] The examples shown in FIG. 11B and the accompanying description, above are provided for illustration purposes. This disclosure is not limited to the described examples.
[00280] FIG. 12 is a block diagram of a computing system that includes an agent system in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[00281] In the example of FIG. 12, a computing system 1200 includes one or more user systems 1210, a network 1220, an application system 1230, data resources and tools 1250, an agent system 1280, a data storage system 1260, an event logging service 1270, and an Al model service 1290.
[00282] All or at least some components of agent system 1280 are implemented at the user system 1210, in some examples. For example, portions of agent system 1280 are implemented directly upon a single client device such that communications involving applications running on user system 1210 and agent system 1280 occur on-device without the need to communicate with, e.g., one or more servers, over the Internet. Dashed lines are used in FIG. 12 to indicate that all or portions of agent system 1280 are capable of being implemented directly on the user system 1210, e.g., the user’s client device. In some examples, both user system 1210 and agent system 1280 are implemented on the same computing device, in some examples. In other examples, all or portions of agent system 1280 are implemented on one or more servers and in communication with user systems 1210 via network 1220. Components of the computing system 1200 including the agent system 1280 are described in more detail herein.
[00283] A user system 1210 includes one or more computing devices. Examples of computing devices include a personal computing device, a server, a mobile computing device, a wearable electronic device, or a smart appliance. The user system 1210 includes one or more software applications that a computing device is capable of executing alone or in combination with one or more other computing devices. Examples of softw are applications include an operating system or a front end of an online system. Many different user systems 1210 are capable of being connected to network 1220 at the same time or at different times. In some examples, different user systems 1210 contain similar components as described in connection with the illustrated user system 1210. In some examples, many different end users of computing system 1200 interact with many different instances of application system 1230 through their respective user systems 1210, at the same time or at different times.
[00284] User system 1210 includes a user interface 1212. User interface 1212 is installed on user system 1210 or accessible to user system 1210 via network 1220. In some examples, user interface 1212 includes a front end portion of an automated agent (e.g., automated agent 902) and/or agent system 1280.
[00285] User interface 1212 includes, for example, a graphical display screen that includes graphical user interface elements. Examples of graphical user interface elements include an input box or other input mechanism and a slot. A slot as used herein refers to a space on a graphical display such as a web page or mobile device screen, into which output, e.g., digital content such as search results, feed items, chat boxes, or threads, is loaded for display to the user. In some examples, user interface 1212 includes a scrollable arrangement of variable-length slots that simulates an online chat or instant messaging session and/or a scrollable arrangement of slots that contain content items or search results. The locations and dimensions of a particular graphical user interface element on a screen are specified using, for example, a markup language such as HTML (Hypertext Markup Language). On a typical display screen, a graphical user interface element is defined by two-dimensional coordinates. In other examples such as virtual reality or augmented reality examples, a slot is defined using a three-dimensional coordinate system. Example screen captures of user interface screens that are capable of being included in user interface 1212 are shown in the drawings and described herein.
[00286] User interface 1212 is capable of interacting with the agent system 1280 and/or one or more application systems 1230. For example, user interface 1212 enables the user of a user system 1210 to interact with the automated agent 902 to create, edit, send, view, receive, process, and organize workflows, tasks, plans, search queries, search results, content items, news feeds, and/or portions of online dialogs. In some examples, user interface 1212 enables the user to input requests (e.g.. queries) for vanous different types of information, to initiate user interface events, and to view or otherwise perceive output such as data and/or digital content produced by, e.g., an application system 1230, agent system 1280, content distribution service 1238 and/or search engine 1240. In some examples, user interface 1212 includes a graphical user interface (GUI), a conversational voice/speech interface, a virtual reality, augmented reality, or mixed reality¬ interface, and/or a haptic interface. User interface 1212 includes a mechanism for entering search queries and/or selecting search criteria (e.g., facets, filters, etc.), selecting GUI user input control elements, and interacting with digital content such as search results, entity profiles, posts, articles, feeds, and online dialogs, in some examples. Some examples of user interface 1212 include web browsers, command line interfaces, and mobile app front ends. User interface 1212 as used herein includes application programming interfaces (APIs) in some examples.
[00287] Network 1220 includes an electronic communications network. Network 1220 is implemented on any medium or mechanism that provides for the exchange of digital data, signals, and/or instructions between the various components of computing system 1200. Examples of network 1220 include, without limitation, a Local Area Network (LAN), a Wide Area Network (WAN), an Ethernet network or the Internet, or a terrestrial, satellite or wireless link, or a combination of any number of different networks and/or communication links.
[00288] Application system 1230 includes, for example, one or more online systems that provide social network services, general-purpose search engines, specific-purpose search engines, messaging systems, content distribution platforms, e-commerce software, enterprise software, or any combination of any of the foregoing or other types of software. Application system 1230 includes any type of application system that provides or enables the retrieval of and interactions with one or more forms of digital content, including machine-generated content via user interface 1212. In some examples, portions of agent system 1280 are components of application system 1230. In some examples, an application system 1230 includes one or more of an entity graph 1232 and/or knowledge graph 1234, a user connection network 15315, a content distribution service 1238, and/or a search engine 1240. In other examples, application system 1230 interacts with agent system 1280 to control a physical machine or device, such as a vehicle or a robot.
[00289] In some examples, a front end portion of application system 1230 operates in user system 1210, for example as a plugin or widget in a graphical user interface of a web application, mobile software application, or as a web browser executing user interface 1212. In an example, a mobile app or a web browser of a user system 1210 transmits a network communication such as an HTTP request over network 1220 in response to user input that is received through a user interface provided by the web application, mobile app, or web browser, such as user interface 1212. A server running application system 1230 receives the input from the web application, mobile app, or browser executing user interface 1212. performs one or more operations using the input, and returns output to the user interface 1212 using a network communication such as an HTTP response, which the web application, mobile app, or browser receives and processes at the user system 1210.
[00290] In the example of FIG. 12, an application system 1230 includes an entity graph 1232 and/or a knowledge graph 1234. Entity graph 1232 and/or knowledge graph 1234 include data organized according to graph-based data structures that are searchable or traversable via queries and/or indexes to determine relationships between entities. In some examples, entity graph 1232 and/or knowledge graph 1234 is used to compute various types of relationship weights, affinity scores, similarity measurements, and/or statistics between, among, or relating to entities.
[00291] Entity graph 1232, knowledge graph 1234 includes a graph-based representation of data stored in data storage system 1260, described herein. For example, entity graph 1232, knowledge graph 1234 represents entities, such as users, organizations (e.g.. companies, schools, institutions), content items (e.g.. job postings, announcements, articles, comments, and shares), and computing resources (e.g., databases, models, applications, and services), as nodes of a graph. Entity graph 1232, knowledge graph 1234 represents relationships, also referred to as mappings or links, between or among entities as edges, or combinations of edges, between the nodes of the graph. In some examples, mappings between different pieces of data used by an application system 1230 are represented by one or more entity graphs. In some examples, the edges, mappings, or links indicate relationships, online interactions, or activities relating to the entities connected by the edges, mappings, or links. In some examples, if a user clicks on a search result, an edge is created connecting the user entity with the search result entity in the entity graph, where the edge is tagged with a label such as "viewed.’7 If a user viewing a list of search results skip over a search result without clicking on the search result, an edge is not created between the user entity and the search result entity in the entity7 graph, in some examples.
[00292] Portions of entity graph 1232, knowledge graph 1234 are automatically re-generated or updated from time to time based on changes and updates to the stored data, e.g., updates to entity data and/or activity data. In some examples, entity graph 1232, knowledge graph 1234 refers to an entire system-wide entity graph or to only a portion of a system-wide graph. In some examples, entity graph 1232, knowledge graph 1234 refers to a subset of a system- wide graph, where the subset pertains to a particular user or group of users of application system 1230.
[00293] Knowledge graph 1234 includes a graph-based representation of data stored in data storage system 1260, described herein. Knowledge graph 1234 represents relationships, also referred to as links or mappings, between entities or concepts as edges, or combinations of edges, between the nodes of the graph. In some examples, mappings between different pieces of data used by application system 1230 or across multiple different application systems are represented by the knowledge graph 1234.
[00294] In some examples, know ledge graph 1234 is a subset or a superset of entity graph 1232. In some examples, knowledge graph 1234 includes multiple different entity graphs 1232 that are joined by cross-application or cross-domain edges. In some examples, knowledge graph 1234 joins entity7 graphs 1232 that have been created across multiple different databases or across different softw are products. In some examples, the entity nodes of the know ledge graph 1234 represent concepts, such as product surfaces, verticals, or application domains. In some examples, knowledge graph 1234 includes a platform that extracts and stores different concepts that is used to establish links between data across multiple different software applications. Examples of concepts include topics, industries, and skills. As with other portions of entity graph 1232, knowledge graph 1234 is usable to compute various ty pes of relationship weights, affinity7 scores, similarity measurements, and/or statistical correlations between or among entities and/or concepts.
[00295] In the example of FIG. 12, application system 1230 includes a user connection network 1236. User connection network 1236 includes, for instance, a social network service, professional social network system and/or other social graph-based applications. Content distribution service 1238 includes, for example, a feed, chatbot or chat-style system, or a messaging system, such as a peer-to-peer messaging system that enables the creation and exchange of messages between users of application system 1230 and the application system 1230. Search engine 1240 includes a search engine that enables users of application system 1230 to input and execute search queries to retrieve information from one or more sources of information, such as user connection network 1236, entity graph 1232. knowledge graph 1234, one or more data stores of data storage system 1260, or one or more data resources and tools 1250.
[00296] In the example of FIG. 12, application system 1230 includes a content distribution service 1238. The content distribution service 1238 includes a data storage service, such as a web server, which stores digital content items, and transmits digital content items to users via user interface 1212. In some examples, content distribution service 1238 processes requests from, for example, application system 1230 and/or agent system 1280, and distributes digital content items to user systems 1210 in response to requests.
[00297] A request includes, for example, a network message such as an HTTP (HyperText Transfer Protocol) request for a transfer of data from an application front end to the application’s back end, or from the application’s back end to the front end, or, more generally, a request for a transfer of data between two different devices or systems, such as data transfers between servers and user sy stems. A request is formulated, e.g., by a browser or mobile app at a user device, in connection with a user interface event such as a login, click on a graphical user interface element, an input of a search query, or a page load. In some examples, content distribution service 1238 is part of application system 1230. In other examples, content distribution service 1238 interfaces with application system 1230 and/or agent system 1280, for example, via one or more application programming interfaces (APIs).
[00298] In the example of FIG. 12, application system 1230 includes a search engine 1240. Search engine 1240 includes a software system designed to search for and retrieve information by executing queries on one or more data stores, such as databases, connection networks, and/or graphs. The queries are designed to find information that matches specified criteria, such as keywords and phrases contained in user input and/or system-generated queries. For example, search engine 1240 is used to retrieve data in response to user input and/or system-generated queries, by executing queries on various data stores of data storage system 1260 and/or data resources and tools 1250, or by traversing entity graph 1232, knowledge graph 1234.
[00299] Data resources and tools 1250 include computing resources, such as data stores, databases, embedding-based retrieval mechanisms, code generators, etc., that are capable of being used to operate an agent or agent system. Data resources and tools 1250 include computing resources that are internal to application system 1230 or external to application system 1230. Examples of data resources and tools 1250 include entity graphs, knowledge graphs, indexes, databases, networks, applications, models (e.g., large language models and/or other artificial intelligence models or machine learning models), taxonomies, data services, web pages, vectors (e.g., data stores that store embeddings), and searchable digital catalogs. Each data resource or tool 1250 enables an agent or agent system to access the data resource or tool, for example by providing an application programming interface (API). Each data resource or tool 1250 includes a monitoring service that periodically generates, publishes, or broadcasts availability and/or other performance metrics associated with the data resource, in some examples. A data resource or tool 1250 provides a set of APIs that are used by an agent or agent system to access the data resource or tool, obtain output from the data resource, and/or obtain performance metrics for the data resource or tool, in some examples.
[00300] Data storage system 1260 includes data stores and/or data services that store digital data received, used, manipulated, and produced by application system 1230 and/or agent system 1280, including contextual data, state data, prompts and/or prompt templates for generative artificial intelligence models or large language models, user inputs, system-generated outputs, metadata, attribute data, activity data. Databases or data stores that are capable of being used in some of the described examples include but are not limited to vector databases, graph databases, relational databases, and key-value stores.
[00301] In the example of FIG. 12, data storage system 1260 includes various data stores that store, for example, entity data, context data, prompts, embeddings, etc. A data store includes include a volatile memory such as a form of random access memory (RAM) and/or persistent memoty, which can be available on user system 1210 or another device (e.g., one or more servers) for storing state data generated at the user system 1210 or an application system 1230. In some examples, a separate, personalized version of each or any data store is created for each user such that data is not shared between or among the separate, personalized versions of the data stores.
[00302] In some examples, data storage system 1260 includes multiple different types of data storage and/or a distributed data service. In some examples, data service refers to a physical, geographic grouping of machines, a logical grouping of machines, or a single machine. In some examples, a data service includes a data center, a cluster, a group of clusters, or a machine. Data stores of data storage system 1260 are capable of storing data produced by real-time and/or offline (e.g., batch) data processing. A data store configured for real-time data processing is referred to as a real-time data store, in some examples. A data store configured for offline or batch data processing is referred to as an offline data store, in some examples. Data stores are capable of being implemented using databases, such as key-value stores, relational databases, and/or graph databases. Data is written to and read from data stores using query technologies, e.g., SQL or NoSQL.
[00303] Data storage system 1260 resides on one or more persistent and/or volatile storage devices that reside within the same local network as other devices of computing system 1200 and/or in a network that is remote relative to other devices of computing system 1200. Thus, although depicted as being included in computing system 1200, portions of data storage system 1260 are part of computing system 1200 or accessed by computing system 1200 over a network, such as network 1220, in some examples.
[00304] Event logging sendee 1270 captures and records activity data generated during operation of application system 1230 and/or agent system 1280, including user interface events generated at user systems 1210 via user interface 1212, in real time, and formulates the user interface events and/or other network activity data into a data stream that is consumed by, for example, a stream processing system. Examples of network activity data include logins, page loads, dialog inputs, input of search queries or query terms, selections of facets or filters, clicks on search results or graphical user interface control elements, scrolling lists of search results, and social action data such as likes, shares, comments, and social reactions (e.g., “insightful,’" “curious,” “like,” etc.). For instance, when a user of application system 1230 via a user system 1210 enters input or clicks on a user interface element, such as a workflow element, or a user interface control element such as a view, comment, share, or reaction button, or uploads a file, or inputs a query, or scrolls through a feed, etc., event logging service 1270 fires an event to capture and store log data including an identifier, such as a session identifier, an event type, a date/timestamp at which the user interface event occurred, and possibly other information about the user interface event, such as the impression portal and/or the impression channel involved in the user interface event. Examples of impression portals and channels include, for example, device types, operating systems, and software platforms, e.g., web applications and mobile applications.
[00305] For instance, when a user enters input or reacts to system-generated output, such as a list of search results, event logging service 1270 stores the corresponding event data in a log. Event logging service 1270 generates a data stream that includes a record of real-time event data for each user interface event that has occurred. Event data logged by event logging service 1270 is pre-processed and anonymized as needed so that it is capable of being used as context data to, for example, configure one or more instructions for one or more artificial intelligence models (e.g., large language models), or to modify weights, affinity scores, or similarity measurements that are assigned by the agent system to search results or data resources.
[00306] Agent system 1280 includes any one or more of the components, features, or functions described herein with respect to an automated agent or agent system. For example, agent system 1280 includes components of automated agent 902, automated agent 1012, and/or distributed multi-agent system 905.
[00307] Al model service 1290 includes one or more artificial intelligence-based models, such as large language models and/or other types of machine learning models including discriminative and/or generative models, neural networks, probabilistic models, statistical models, transformerbased models, and/or any combination of any of the foregoing. Al model sen ice 1290 enables automated agents and agent systems to access to these models, for example by providing one or more application programming interfaces (APIs). Al model service 1290 includes a monitoring service that periodically generates, publishes, or broadcasts latency and/or other performance metrics associated with the models. In some examples, Al model sendee 1290 provides a set of APIs that are used by an agent or agent system to obtain performance metrics for large language models and/or other machine learning models.
[00308] While not specifically shown, it should be understood that any of user system 1210, application system 1230, data resources and tools 1250, data storage system 1260, event logging sendee 1270, agent system 1280, and Al model service 1290 includes an interface embodied as computer programming code stored in computer memory that when executed causes a computing device to enable bidirectional communication with any other of user system 1210, application system 1230, data resources and tools 1250, data storage system 1260, event logging service 1270, agent system 1280, and Al model service 1290 using a communicative coupling mechanism. Examples of communicative coupling mechanisms include network interfaces, inter-process communication (IPC) interfaces and application program interfaces (APIs).
[00309] Each of user system 1210, application system 1230, data resources and tools 1250, data storage system 1260, event logging service 1270, agent system 1280, and Al model service 1290 is implemented using one or more computing devices that are communicatively coupled to electronic communications network 1220. Any of user system 1210. application system 1230. data resources and tools 1250, data storage system 1260, event logging service 1270, agent system 1280, and Al model service 1290 are capable of being bidirectionally communicatively coupled by network 1220. User system 1210 as well as other different user systems (not shown) are bidirectionally communicatively coupled to application system 1230 and/or agent system 1280, in some examples.
[00310] Examples of users of user system 1210 include an administrator or end user of application system 1230 or agent system 1280. User system 1210 is configured to communicate bidirectionally with any of application system 1230, data resources and tools 1250, data storage system 1260, event logging service 1270, agent system 1280, and Al model service 1290 over network 1220.
[00311] Terms such as component, system, and model as used herein refer to computer implemented structures, e.g., combinations of software and hardware such as computer programming logic, data, and/or data structures implemented in electrical circuitry, stored in memory, and/or executed by one or more hardware processors.
[00312] The features and functionality of user system 1210, application system 1230, data resources and tools 1250, data storage system 1260, event logging service 1270, agent system 1280, and Al model service 1290 are implemented using computer software, hardware, or software and hardware, and include combinations of automated functionality, data structures, and digital data, which are represented schematically in the figures. User system 1210, application system 1230, data resources and tools 1250, data storage system 1260, event logging service 1270, agent system 1280, and Al model service 1290 are shown as separate elements in FIG . 15 for ease of discussion but. except as otherwise described, the illustration is not meant to imply that separation of these elements is required. The illustrated systems, services, and data stores (or their functionality) of each of user system 1210, application system 1230, data resources and tools 1250, data storage system 1260, event logging service 1270, agent system 1280, and Al model service 1290 are capable of being divided over any number of physical systems, including a single physical computer system, and are capable of communicating with each other in any appropriate manner.
[00313] In the example of FIG. 14, portions of agent system 1280 that are capable of being implemented on a front end system, such as one or more user systems, and portions of agent system 1280 that are capable of being implemented on a back end system such as one or more servers, are collectively represented as agent system 1450 for ease of discussion only. In some examples, portions of agent system 1280 are not required to be implemented all on the same computing device, in the same memory, or loaded into the same memory at the same time. In some examples, access to portions of agent system 1280 is limited to different, mutually exclusive sets of user systems and/or servers. In some examples, a separate, personalized version of agent system 1280 is created for each user of the agent system 1280 such that data is not shared between or among the separate, personalized versions of the agent system 128O.Certain portions of agent system 1280 are capable of being implemented on user systems while other portions of agent system 1280 are capable of being implemented on a server computer or group of servers. In some examples, one or more portions of agent system 1280 are implemented on user systems. Agent system 1280 is entirely implemented on user systems, e.g., client devices, in some examples. In some examples, a version of agent system 1280 is embedded in a client device’s operating system or stored at the client device and loaded into memory at execution time.
[00314] The examples shown in FIG. 12 and the accompanying description, above are provided for illustration purposes. This disclosure is not limited to the described examples.
[00315] FIG. 13A is a block diagram of a machine learning modeling system that is capable of being used by and/or included in an agent system in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[00316] Machine learning models are computer-implemented structures that are capable of generating predictive output in response to raw input. A machine learning model includes a probabilistic or statistical algorithm that is configured to perform a specific predictive function through a training process that involves iteratively exposing the models to many samples of data and adjusting one or more model parameters until the models achieve a satisfactory prediction accuracy and reliability. The predictive accuracy and reliability of a machine learning model in relation to a particular task is dependent upon the training process and the data used in the training.
[00317] Machine learning systems include components and processes that perform data generation, model training, model evaluation (e g., calibration and validation), and application. Data preparation includes obtaining and aggregating model input data. The preparation of training data includes labeling the aggregated data, in some examples. Training data includes structured data, unstructured data, text, multimodal data, or any combination of any of the foregoing. Model training includes setting values of hyperparameters, determining performance metrics, adjusting weights of the machine learning model in response to the training data, evaluating the performance metrics, and parameter tuning. Application includes applying the trained machine learning model to the real-world environment, e.g., in a specific use case using data not included in the training data (e.g., unlabeled data). The application phase is referred to as inferencing or inference time, in some examples.
[00318] In FIG. 13A, a machine learning modeling system 1300 includes a machine learning model 1306, a modeling and calibration subsystem 1302, and a model validation subsystem 1304. The machine learning model 1306 is any type or combination of one or more machine learning models, such as any of the types of machine learning models show n in FIG. 13B, FIG. 13C, FIG.
13D, and FIG. 13E and/or any other types or combinations of machine learning models.
[00319] The modeling and calibration subsystem 1302 receives model input, such as input feature sets, embeddings, digital content, or prompts. The model input is engineered to train the machine learning model 1306 to perform one or more tasks, such as discriminative tasks like classification or scoring and/or generative tasks such as content generation tasks. Modeling and calibration subsystem 1302 includes a data set creation component 1303, a model training component 1305, and a model calibration component 1307.
[00320] Data set creation component 1303 divides the model input, e.g., input feature sets, into one or more training data sets and one or more validation data sets, e.g., training data set 1309 and validation data set 1311. Model training component 1305 and model calibration component 1307 cooperatively execute a training process. In some examples, the training process causes the machine learning model 1306 to develop, by iterative adjustments to weights or coefficients, a mathematical representation of the relationships between different items of data, such as relationships between different inputs (e.g., similarity estimates or estimates of user preferences), or relationships between inputs and categorical data such as classification labels, or relationships between inputs and outputs. The resulting trained model is used to generate predictive output (e.g., scores, labels, or other output) based on subsequent model input.
[00321] One or more different approaches are used to train the machine learning model 1306, for example, supervised machine learning, semi-supervised machine learning, or unsupervised machine learning. In supervised machine learning, the set of training data includes indications of expected model output coupled with respective model input; for example, ground-truth labeled data samples. In some examples, an instance of training data for supervised learning includes a model input (e.g., a set of features) and an associated expected output (e.g., a classification label), where the expected output is human curated or machine-generated. In some examples, an instance of training data for supervised machine learning includes a digital image and a title or caption for the image that describes the contents of the image. In unsupervised machine learning, the training examples are unlabeled. In unsupervised machine learning, a machine learning algorithm such as a clustering algorithm is used to identify similarities among data samples and create clusters or groupings of similar data using one or more similarity criteria. In some examples, unsupervised learning is used to group digital content items, such as images, articles, or videos, into topics, where the topics are determined based on the features of the content items themselves rather than supplied by labels. Semi-supervised machine learning combines supervised and unsupervised machine learning, using both labeled and unlabeled data to train machine learning models.
[00322] Model training component 1305 applies machine learning model 1306 to training data set 1309 iteratively and adjusts the value of one or more model parameters and/or feature coefficients of the machine learning model 1306 based on the processing of the training data set 1309 by the model 1306 until the difference between the predicted model output generated by the machine learning model 1306 and the expected model output evidenced by the training data set 1309 satisfies (e.g., meets or exceeds) model performance criteria 1308. When the model performance criteria 1308 are satisfied, modeling and calibration subsystem 1302 ends the model training process and produces a trained machine learning model 1306.
[00323] Model validation subsystem 1304 applies a model validation process to the trained machine learning model 1306 produced by modeling and calibration subsystem 1302. Model validation subsystem 1304 uses the validation data set 1311 to determine whether model validation criteria 1310 are satisfied (e.g., met or exceeded). In some examples, the validation data set 1311 is created by setting aside a portion of the training data set 1309 until after training, such that the validation data set 1311 is used to compare and evaluate the difference between the predictive output produced by the trained model to the expected model output evidenced by the set-aside portion of the training data set 1309.
[00324] A validated machine learning model 1306 is used for inferencing, e.g., to generate predictive output, e.g., labels, scores, or other content, in response to model input. Alternatively or in addition, the output produced by the validated machine learning model 1306 is stored for future use (e.g., for access or lookup by one or more downstream processes, systems, or services).
[00325] There are many different types and configurations of machine learning models. Illustrative, nonlimiting examples of some of the different types of machine learning models are shown in FIG. 13B, FIG. 13C, FIG. 13D, and FIG. 13E. described below. The AIs, models, and Al model services described herein are capable of including or using any of the various ty pes of machine learning models, including but not limited to one or more of the types of models shown in FIG. 13B, FIG. 13C, FIG. 13D, and FIG. 13E
[00326] The examples shown in FIG. 13A and the accompanying description, above are provided for illustration purposes. This disclosure is not limited to the described examples.
[00327] FIG. 13B is a block diagram of a machine learning model that is capable of being used by and/or included in an agent system in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[00328] In the example of FIG. 13B, a machine learning system 1312 includes a machine learning model 1315. Machine learning model 1315 is or includes a probabilistic or statistical machine learning model that uses a modeling function 1316 to model the relationship between model input 1314 (e.g., input feature set X) and model output (e.g., Y, P (Y|X)).
[00329] In some examples, the machine learning model 1315 is configured as a discriminative model such that the machine learning model 1315 produces output that indicates the probabilistic or statistical likelihood of an output Y given an input X. Some examples of the machine learning model 1315 are alternatively or additionally configured as a generative model. In some examples, a machine learning model performs both discriminative and generative tasks.
[00330] One illustrative example of a discriminative model is a logistic regression function. Mathematically, a simplified form of the logistic function is capable of being expressed as P(X) = /
(x) = 1+ -J0+/?1X), where e is the exponential constant and ?0 and
are feature coefficients. During training of the logistic regression model 1315, logistic regression estimates the values of the coefficients in the linear combination based on the feature values in the training data set. The machine learning model 1315 is configured (e.g., values of model parameters are adjusted) via training, calibration, and validation processes such as those described with reference to FIG. 13A.
[00331] The machine learning model 1315 includes a modeling function 1316. The modeling function 1316 includes feature coefficients 1317. The values of one or more of the feature coefficients 1317 are established via machine learning model training, calibration, and validation processes based on training data sets and/or validation data sets.
[00332] In the logistic regression example, the feature coefficients 1317 include a regression coefficient for each feature input x (e.g., (i) = /?0 +
+ ••• /3mxm i ), where Xi is a particular item of the feature set and m is the number of feature inputs x in the input feature set X 1314. The regression coefficient indicates the relative effect of the particular feature input x of the feature set X on the predicted outcome P(Y|X), e.g., a predicted label or score, based on the values of the feature inputs x in the feature set X 1314.The values of the feature coefficients are initialized and adjusted during model training and calibration.
[00333] The machine learning model 1315 also includes model hyperparameters 1318. The values of hyperparameters 1318 are selected or tuned at a global level and generally are not modified based on specific instances of training data. In the logistic regression example, model hyperparameters 1318 include a penalty' or regularization parameter (e.g., LI or L2) and the C or regularization strength parameter. The penalty or regularization parameter is tunable to adjust model generalization error and regulate overfitting. The C or regularization strength parameter regulates overfitting in conjunction with the penalty. The model hyperparameters 1318 is tuned using, for example, a hyperparameter tuning tool or hyperparameter optimization method.
[00334] Some examples of the machine learning model 1315 are configured as a binary' classifier or as a scoring model. In a binary classification mode, the output of the machine learning model 1315 indicates whether the model input is or is not associated with a certain output (e.g., either 0 if the input is not mathematically likely to be associated with the output or 1 if the input is mathematically likely to be associated with the output), for a given set of input features. In a scoring mode, the output of the machine learning model 1315 includes a score, which corresponds to a probability of the predicted output (e.g.. a numerical value between zero and 1, inclusive).
[00335] The model input 1314 (e.g., input feature set X) includes numerical features, categorical features, quantitative values, qualitative values, raw features, compressed representations of raw features (e.g., vector representations or embeddings, and/or other forms of digital content. [00336] In response to an instance of features of feature set X, machine learning model 1315 computes and outputs an estimated output P(Y|X) 1319. The estimated output produced by machine learning model 1315 based on an instance of features of feature set X 1314 is in the form of a binary output or a score, in some examples. The output is stored in a data storage for subsequent lookup or provided to one or more downstream systems, processes, devices, frameworks, and/or services.
[00337] The machine learning model 1315 is configured and implemented as a network service, in some examples. In some examples, the machine learning model 1315 is configured using a machine learning library and an application programming interface (API), e.g.. via an API call such as ML library. model)/;/. p2, ...pn), where p indicates a parameter or argument of the call, such as a model hyperparameter or an input feature set identifier. Once configured, the machine learning model 1315 and/or its output is hosted on one or more servers and/or data storage devices for accessibility to one or more requesting processes, systems, devices, frameworks, or services.
[00338] The examples shown in FIG. 13B and the accompanying description, above are provided for illustration purposes. This disclosure is not limited to the described examples.
[00339] FIG. 13C is a block diagram of a machine learning model that is capable of being used by and/or included in an agent system in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[00340] A generative artificial intelligence (GAI) model or generative model uses artificial intelligence technology, e.g., machine learning, neural networks, to machine-generate digital content based on model inputs and the previously existing data with which the model has been trained. Whereas discriminative models are based on conditional probabilities P (y | x), that is, the probability of an output given an input x, generative models capture joint probabilities P (x, y), that is, the likelihood of x and y occurring together. A generative language model is a particular type of GAI model that is capable of generating content in response to model input. The model input includes a task description, also referred to as a prompt. The task description includes instructions (e.g., natural language instructions such as “please generate a summary of these search results’7) and/or examples of digital content (e.g.. examples of summaries written using a particular writing style or tone). Portions of the task description are in the form of natural language text, such as a question or a statement, in some examples. Alternatively or in addition, a task description or prompt includes non-text forms of content, such as digital imagery and/or digital audio.
[00341] In the example of FIG. 13C, a machine learning system 1320 includes a machine learning model 1324. Machine learning model 1324 is or includes a probabilistic or statistical machine learning model that uses a modeling function to model the likelihood of cooccurrence of input feature set X and outputY; e.g., the likelihood ofX andY occurring together. The machine learning model 1324 is configured via training, calibration, and validation processes such as those described with reference to FIG. 13A. Some examples of the machine learning model 1324 are alternatively or additionally configured as a discriminative model. In some examples, a machine learning model performs both discriminative and generative tasks.
[00342] The machine learning model 1324 includes a modeling function 1325. The modeling function 1325 includes feature coefficients or weights 1326. The values of one or more of the feature coefficients is established via machine learning model training, calibration, and validation processes based on training data sets and/or validation data sets. The machine learning model 1324 also includes model hyperparameters 1327. The values of model hyperparameters 1327 are selected or tuned at a global level and generally are not modified based on specific instances of training data.
[00343] The model input 1322 (e.g., input feature set X) includes numerical features, categorical features, quantitative values, qualitative values, raw features, compressed representations of raw features (e.g., vector representations or embeddings), and/or other forms of digital content.
[00344] In response to an instance of model input 1322 (e.g., instance of feature set X), machine learning model 1324 computes and outputs an estimated output P(X,Y) 1328. The estimated output produced by machine learning model 1324 based on a model input 1322 is in the form of an input-output pair and a score or simply includes the highest scoring input-output pair. In some examples, the output is stored in a data storage for subsequent lookup or provided to one or more downstream systems, processes, devices, frameworks, and/or services.
[00345] The machine learning model 1324 is configured and implemented as a network service, in some examples. The machine learning model 1324 is configured using a machine learning library and an application programming interface (API), e.g., via an API call such as ML library . model//?/. p2, ...pn), where p indicates a parameter or argument of the call, such as a model hyperparameter or an input feature set identifier, in some examples. Once configured, the machine learning model 1324 and/or its output are hosted on one or more servers and/or data storage devices for accessibility to one or more requesting processes, systems, devices, frameworks, or services.
[00346] The examples shown in FIG. 13C and the accompanying description, above are provided for illustration purposes. This disclosure is not limited to the described examples.
[00347] FIG. 13D is a block diagram of a machine learning model that is capable of being used by and/or included in an agent system in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[00348] A specific example of a machine learning model is a deep neural network. Some machine learning models, such as multi-task models, include multiple interconnected deep neural networks. In the example of FIG. 13D, a machine learning system 1330 includes a deep neural network 1334. The deep neural network 1334 is configured via training, calibration, and validation processes such as those described with reference to FIG. 13A. Some examples of the deep neural network 1334 are configured as a discriminative model and/or a generative model. In some examples, a deep neural network 1334 performs both discriminative and generative tasks.
[00349] In computer science, deep learning refers to a class of machine learning that uses computer-implemented neural networks to generate predictive output, where the neural networks have one or more internal (or hidden) layers between and in addition to an input layer and an output layer. Each layer in a deep neural network (or deep learning model) performs a set of computational operations on the input to that layer.
[00350] Each layer of the neural network includes a set of nodes that each apply an activation function to one or more portions of the input to that layer to produce an output. The activation function performs a nonlinear transformation of the input and sends its output to the next layer of the network. For example, if the output of the activation function is equal to or exceeds a threshold value, the node passes its output to the next layer, but if the output is less than the threshold value, the output passed to the next layer is zero or a null value. The type of activation function used at anode or layer is selected based on the particular predictive task for which the model is configured and/or based on the model architecture. Examples of activation functions include the SoftMax function (for multi-class classification), the sigmoid function (for internal layers), and rectifier functions (e.g.. ramp, or Rectified Linear Unit (ReLU)).
[00351] The input layer of a deep neural network receives and processes the model input, which includes raw data and/or pre-processed data such as aggregations, derivations, embeddings or vector representations of raw data. In some examples, the output of a layer of the neural network is connected to and used as the input to one or more other layers, such that each layer of the deep learning model creates a different (e.g., progressively more highly processed) set of information relating to the original, raw input (e.g., producing a different representation of the raw input at each layer). Weights are applied to the output of each node of each layer before the output is propagated to the next layer. The weight values are adjusted so that the outputs of some nodes or layers influences the final output more or less than the outputs of other nodes or layers, in some examples. The output layer of the neural network produces the final predictive output, which is made accessible to one or more downstream models, applications, systems, operations, processes or services.
[00352] Backpropagation is an example of a method that is often used to train a neural network model. In a feedforward step, the training data is propagated from the input layer through the internal layers to the final output by computing each successive layer’s outputs up to and including the final output. A loss function (or cost function, such as cross-entropy, log loss, or squared error loss, or a logistic function) is used to compute error for the final output, for example, based on a comparison of the difference between the output predicted by the model and the expected or target output to the error computed on a previous iteration. The model weights (or parameters or coefficients) are adjusted to reduce the error, iteratively, until the error falls within an acceptable range or the error stops changing by more than a threshold amount (e.g., the model converges). In backpropagation, these iterative weight adjustments are propagated backward from the output layer through the internal layers. The gradient of the loss function or gradient descent (e.g., stochastic gradient descent) is often used in backpropagation.
[00353] In some examples, recommendation systems use deep learning models to generate predictive output and use the predictive output to configure or control one or more downstream operations. In some examples, recommendation systems compute statistical or probabilistic predictions that are used to select, rank, or sort digital content items for presentation to users via electronic devices. Examples of downstream operations that are capable of using the predictive output of deep learning recommendation systems include news feeds, automated product recommendations, and automated connection (e.g., friend, follower, or contact) recommendations for online platforms such as social networks. Other examples include systems that support human decision making, such as systems that use artificial intelligence to generate recommendations for health care, financial services, training, education, and/or other fields or topics. Still other examples include control systems that use artificial intelligence to recommend courses of action to other components of automated systems in operational environments, such as “smart’’ vehicles, appliances, robots, and other automated devices.
[00354] In the example of FIG. 13D, the deep neural network 1334 includes an input layer 1335, one or more hidden layers 1336, and an output layer 1337. The input layer 1335 receives one or more batches of model input 1323 (e.g., input feature sets X). In some examples, the input layer 1335 includes a number of nodes that corresponds to the number of input features in a given input feature set X. The output of the input layer 1335 becomes the input to the one or more hidden layers 1336. The output of the one or more hidden layers 1336 becomes the input to the output layer 1337. The output layer 1337 outputs the final predictive output 1338. In some examples, each of the layers of the deep neural network 1334 is fully connected in the sense that the output of each node of each layer is connected to the input of each node of the next subsequent layer. In other examples, the deep neural network 1334 includes portions that are not fully connected.
[00355] The deep neural network 1334 is capable of being configured and implemented as a network service. In some examples, the deep neural network 1334 is configured using a machine learning library and an application programming interface (API), e.g., via an API call such as ML library.rnodeli/i/. p2. ...pn). where p indicates a parameter or argument of the call, such as a model hyperparameter or an input feature set identifier. Once configured, the deep neural network 1334 and/or its output are hosted on one or more servers and/or data storage devices for accessibility to one or more requesting processes, systems, devices, frameworks, or services.
[00356] The input feature set X includes numerical features, categorical features, quantitative values, qualitative values, raw features, compressed representations of raw features (e.g., vector representations or embeddings), natural language, and/or other forms of digital content. Embedding refers to a numerical representation of a set of features, in some examples. An embedding encodes information, e.g., a set of features associated with an entity and/or attribute, relative to an embedding space. Embeddings and embedding spaces are generated by artificial intelligence (Al) models. An embedding is often expressed as a vector, where each dimension of the vector includes a numerical value that is an integer or a real number (e.g., a floating point value). The numerical value assigned to a given dimension of the vector conveys information about the data represented by the embedding, relative to the embedding space, also referred to as a vector space. The embedding space (or vector space) includes all of the possible values of each dimension of the vector. The embedding space is defined by the way in which the Al model used to generate the vector has been trained and configured, including the training data used to train the Al model. In some examples, train as used herein refers to an iterative process of applying an Al algorithm to one or more sets of training data, analyzing the output of the Al model in comparison to expected model output using a loss function (also referred to as a cost function or error function), adjusting values of one or more parameters and/or coefficients of the Al model, and repeating the process until the difference between the actual model output and the expected model output falls within an acceptable range of error or tolerance.
[00357] Embedding-based retrieval (EBR) is a method of searching for similar digital content, such as documents or portions of documents. Embedding-based retrieval involves converting digital data, e.g., sets of features, to embeddings and then using a similarity algorithm, such as nearest-neighbor search or cosine similarity, to identity7 embeddings that are similar to one another. Match or map refers to an exact match or an inexact match, in various examples. Match or map refers to a machine-determined predicted or estimated degree of relevance, similarity or compatibility7 between entities or data items that satisfies (e.g., meets or exceeds) a threshold level of relevance, similarity or compatibility7, where the threshold level of relevance, similarity or compatibility is variable based on the requirements of a particular design or implementation. The threshold level of relevance, similarity7, or compatibility7 is set lower or higher for different types of matching or mapping, in some examples.
[00358] In response to an instance of feature set X, deep neural network 1334 computes and outputs a predictive output 1338. The predictive output 1338 is stored in a data storage for subsequent lookup or provided to one or more downstream systems, processes, devices, frameworks, and/or services.
[00359] The deep neural network 1334 is configured and implemented as a network sendee, in some examples. The deep neural network 1334 is configured using a machine learning library and an application programming interface (API), e.g.. via an API call such as ML library. model// /. p2. ...pn), where p indicates a parameter or argument of the call, such as a model hyperparameter or an input feature set identifier, in some examples. Once configured, the machine learning model 1306 and/or its output are hosted on one or more servers and/or data storage devices for accessibility to one or more requesting processes, systems, devices, frameworks, or services.
[00360] The examples shown in FIG. 13D and the accompanying description, above are provided for illustration purposes. This disclosure is not limited to the described examples.
[00361] FIG. 13E is a block diagram of a machine learning model that is capable of being used by and/or included in an agent system in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[00362] A specific example of a deep neural network is a sequence to sequence model, which takes sequential data such as words, phrases, or images (sequences of characters, tokens, or pixel values) or time series data as input and outputs sequential data. An example of a sequence to sequence model is an encoder-decoder model. In an encoder-decoder model, a first neural network known as an encoder transforms the model input into an encoded version of the model input, e.g., an embedding or vector. In some examples, an encoder transforms a sentence or an image into a sequence of numbers. A second neural network known as the decoder takes the output of the encoder (e.g., the encoded version of the model input) and decodes it. In some examples, a decoder transforms the sequence of numbers created and output by the encoder into a translated sentence or another form of output.
[00363] A specific example of an encode-decoder model is a transformer model. A transformer model is a deep neural network encoder-decoder model that uses a technique called attention or self-attention to detect relationships and dependencies among data elements in a sequence. Transformer models are capable of being used to perform various natural language processing (NLP) tasks and other machine learning tasks, such as generating content based on input attributes or tokens. In some examples, the attention mechanism facilitates the detection of relationships and dependencies between words and phrases.
[00364] In the example of FIG. 13E, a machine learning system 1340 includes a transformer model 1342. The transformer model 1342 is constructed using a neural network-based machine learning model architecture. In some examples, the neural network-based architecture includes one or more self-attention layers (e.g., multi-head attention layer 1345, masked multi-head attention layer 1355, and multi-head attention layer 1357) that allow the model to assign different weights to different features included in the model input. Alternatively, or in addition, the neural network architecture includes feed-forward layers (e.g., feed-forward layer 1347 and feed-forward layer 1359) and residual connections (e.g., add & norm layer 1346, add & norm layer 1348, add & norm layer 1356, add & norm layer 1358, add & norm layer 1360) that allow the model to machine-1 earn complex data patterns including relationships between different states, actions, and rewards in multiple different contexts. In some examples, transformer model 1342 is constructed using a transformer-based architecture that includes self-attention layers, feed-forward layers, and residual connections between the layers. The exact number and arrangement of layers of each type as well as the hyperparameter values used to configure the model are determined based on the requirements of a particular design or implementation of the user trajectory processing system.
[00365] As shown in FIG. 13E, transformer model 1342 feeds embedded subsequences 1350 into encoder 1344 and decoder 1354. For example, transformer model 1342 feeds inputs of embedded subsequences 1350 into multi-head attention layer 1345 of encoder 1344. In some examples, inputs of embedded subsequences 1350 are a series of tokens and the output of the encoder (e.g., encoder output representation 1352), is a fixed-dimensional representation for each of the tokens of embedded subsequences 1350 including an embedding for inputs of embedded subsequences 1350. Transformer model 1342 feeds encoder output representation 1352 and outputs of embedded subsequences 1350 into decoder 1354 which generates a sequence of tokens based on encoder output representation 1352 and the input embeddings. While a specific architecture of encoder 1344 and decoder 1354 is shown for simplicity, as explained above, the exact number and arrangement of layers of each type as well as the hyperparameter values used to configure the model are determined based on the requirements of a particular design or implementation. Therefore, in some examples, transformer model 1342 includes different numbers, arrangements, and types of layers, such that each input token of embedded subsequences 1350 is fed through the layers of transformer model 1342 and is dependent on other input tokens of embedded subsequences 1350.
[00366] Transformer model 1342 illustrates a generic encoder/decoder model for simplicity. In such a model, encoder 1344 encodes the input into a fixed-length vector (e.g.. encoder output representation 1352) and decoder 1354 decodes the fixed-length vector into an output sequence. Encoder 1344 and decoder 1354 are trained together to maximize the conditional log-likelihood of the output given the input. Once trained, encoder 1344 and decoder 1354 are capable of generating output given an input sequence or scoring a pair of input-output sequences based on their probability of coexistence.
[00367] As shown in FIG. 13E, encoder 1344 includes multi-head attention layer 1345, add & norm layer 1346, feed-forward layer 1347, and add & norm layer 1348. Multi-head attention layer 1345 receives inputs of embedded subsequences 1350 and computes output representations for each of the input tokens of embedded subsequences 1350 based on the inputs of embedded subsequences 1350. For example, multi-head attention layer 1345 converts each input token of embedded subsequences 1350 into queries, keys, and values using query, key, and value matrices. Multi-head attention layer 1345 computes the output representation of the input tokens of embedded subsequences 1350 as the weighted sum of the values of all of the input tokens of embedded subsequences 1350. Multi-head attention layer 1345 computes the weights for the weighted sum by applying a compatibility function to the corresponding key and query for the value. For example, multi-head attention layer 1345 uses a scaled dot product on the key and query of an input token to determine a weight to apply to a value of the input token. Multi-head attention layer 1345 includes multiple attention blocks which each compute an output representation for the input token. Multi -head attention layer 1345 aggregates the output representations of these attention blocks to generate a final output representation for multi -head attention layer 1345.
[00368] Transformer model 1342 feeds the output representation generated by multi -head attention layer 1345 and residual connections from the inputs of embedded subsequences 1350 into add & norm layer 1346. By including these residual connections, transformer model 1342 ensures that it does not “forget” features of embedded subsequences 1350 during training. Forgetting in the context of machine learning refers to a phenomenon that occurs as the model continues to be sequentially trained on different datasets over time. Because the model continually adjusts the values of feature coefficients as it is trained on subsequent training datasets, these continuous adjustments of the feature coefficient values is capable of causing the influence of the datasets used earlier in training on those coefficient values to be lost or diluted.
[00369] Add & norm layer 1346 sums the output representation generated by multi -head attention layer 1345 and the residual connections from inputs of embedded subsequences 1350 and applies a layer normalization to the result. In some examples, the add & normal layers also apply a SoftMax function to generate action probabilities for the inputs of embedded subsequences 1350. For example, add & norm layer 1346 generates estimated probabilities p(ak|s). where ak is the action policy and s is the state features.
[00370] Transformer model 1342 feeds the normalized output of add & norm layer 1346 into feed-forward layer 1347. Feed-forward layer 1347 is a feed-forward network that receives the normalized output, feeds it through the hidden layers of feed-forward layer 1347, and then feeds the output of feed-forward layer 1347 into add & norm layer 1348. Feed-forward layer 1347 processes the information received from add & norm layer 1346 and updates the hidden layers of feed-forward layer 1347 based on the information (e.g., during training) and/or generate an output based on the hidden layers processing the information (e.g., during evaluation and/or inference). For example, during training, transformer model 1342 updates the weights of the hidden layers of feed-forward layer 1347 based on the inputs and the loss of the transformer system. Further details with regard to the loss of the transformer system as well as training objectives and metrics are discussed below. As an alternative example, during evaluation and/or inference, the weights of the hidden layers of feed-forward layer 1347 are used to determine the output representation 1352 of each of the input tokens of embedded subsequences 1350.
[00371] Transformer model 1342 feeds the output of feed-forward layer 1347 into add & norm layer 1348 as well as residual connections from the output of add & norm layer 1346. Add & norm layer 1348 sums the output of feed-forward layer 1347 with the residual connections from add & norm layer 1346 and applies a layer normalization to the result to generate encoder output representation 1352. Transformer model 1342 feeds encoder output representation 1352 into multi-head attention layer 1357 of decoder 1354 as explained below.
[00372] Masked multi-head attention layer 1355 receives outputs of embedded subsequences 1350 and computes representations for each of the output tokens of embedded subsequences 1350 based on masked outputs of embedded subsequences 1350. For example, masked multi-head attention layer 1355 computes representations for each of the output tokens of embedded subsequences 1350 based on previous output tokens while masking future output tokens. Masked multi-head attention layer 1355 therefore only computes representations using tokens that come before the token masked multi -head attention layer 1355 is trying to predict.
[00373] Transformer model 1342 feeds the representation generated by masked multi -head attention layer 1355 and residual connections from the outputs of embedded subsequences 1350 into add & norm layer 1356. Add & norm layer 1356 sums the representation generated by masked multi-head attention layer 1355 and the residual connections from outputs of embedded subsequences 1350 and applies a layer normalization to the result.
[00374] Transformer model 1342 feeds the normalized output of add & norm layer 1356 into multi-head attention layer 1357. Multi-head attention layer 1357 receives the normalized output of add & norm layer 1356 as well as encoder output representation 1352 from encoder 1344 and generates a representation based on both.
[00375] Transformer model 1342 feeds the representation generated by multi -head attention layer 1357 and residual connections from the output of add & norm layer 1356 into add & norm layer 1358. Add & norm layer 1358 sums the representation generated by multi-head attention layer 1357 and the residual connections from the output of add & norm layer 1356 and applies a layer normalization to the result.
[00376] Transformer model 1342 feeds the normalized output of add & norm layer 1358 into feed-forward layer 1359. Feed-forward layer 1359 is a feed-forward network that receives the normalized output, feeds it through the hidden layers of feed-forward layer 1359, and then feeds the output of feed-forward layer 1359 into add & norm layer 1369. Feed-forward layer 1359 processes the information received from add & norm layer 1358 and updates the hidden layers of feed-forw ard layer 1359 based on the information (e.g., during training) and/or generate an output based on the hidden layers processing the information (e.g., during evaluation and/or inference). For example, during training, transformer model 1342 updates the weights of the hidden layers of feed-forward layer 1359 based on the inputs and the loss of the transformer system. Further details with regard to the loss of the transformer system as well as training objectives and metrics are discussed below. As an alternative example, during evaluation and/or inference, the weights of the hidden layers of feed-forward layer 1359 are used to determine the output of feed-forward layer 1359.
[00377] Transformer model 1342 feeds the output of feed-forward layer 1359 into add & norm layer 1360 as well as residual connections from the output of add & norm layer 1358. Add & norm layer 1360 sums the output of feed-forward layer 1359 with the residual connections from add & norm layer 1358 and applies a layer normalization to the result to generate an output.
[00378] Transformer model 1342 generates output probabilities 1362 from the output of add & norm layer 1360. For example, transformer model 1342 applies a linear transformation and a SoftMax function to the output of add & norm layer 1360 to generate a normalized vector of output probabilities 1362.
[00379] In some examples, such as during training, transformer model 1342 determines a loss for the system based on output probabilities 1362. In some examples, transformer model 1342 uses deep quantile regression for training. In such an example, output probabilities 1362 includes a mean prediction probability and estimations for the upper and lower bounds of the range of prediction such that output probabilities 626 includes an uncertainty range. In one example, the loss function of transformer model 1342 using deep quantile regression is represented by the following equation: £(<5|a) = L m where a is the required quantile (a value
J-Jsi lj si U
between 0 and 1 representing the desired quantile) and
= yt — f(xi), where (%;) is the mean predicted by output probabilities 1362, yt are the outputs of embedded subsequences 1350 and xt are the inputs of embedded subsequences 1350. The loss over the entirety of a dataset of embedded subsequences 1350 where embedded subsequences 1350 has a length of N is capable of being represented by the following equation:
L(y, f\a) = ~ hi such examples, output probabilities 1362 includes three values: a mean prediction, a lower bound quantile, and an upper bound quantile. In some examples, transformer model 1342 uses upper confidence bound or Thompson sampling. In some examples, transformer model 1342 determines model output 1364 based on the mean prediction, the lower bound quantile, and the upper bound quantile based on upper confidence bound and/or Thompson sampling.
[00380] In some examples, transformer model 1342 is trained to optimize the model parameters with trajectory-specific normalizations using cross-entropy loss. For example, transformer model 1342 uses a loss function represented by the following equation: L(0) =
Ztii Zfc l°g | where Ntraj is the trajectory' count, wL is the
normalization weight, ak^ is the predicted action for the trajectory' i at timestep t, and
is the state of the online system for the trajectory i at timestep t. In some examples, transformer model 1342 uses trajectory-wise normalization. In some examples, the add & norm layers of transformer model 1342 normalize the w eights according to the following equation: wL = ^-, where 7 is the length of trajectory' i. In some examples, transformer model 1342 uses global normalization. In some examples, the add & norm layers of transformer model 1342 normalize the weights according to the following equation:
= c. where c is a positive scalar. In some examples, the scalar c is predetermined.
[00381] Language models, including large language models and other generative models, are capable of being implemented using transformer models. A generative model is commonly constructed using a neural network-based machine learning model architecture. In some examples, the neural network-based architecture includes one or more input layers that receive task descriptions (or prompts), generate one or more embeddings based on the task descriptions, and pass the one or more embeddings to one or more other layers of the neural network. In other examples, the one or more embedding are generated based on the task description by a preprocessor, the embeddings are input to the generative language model, and the generative language model outputs digital content, e g., natural language text or a combination of natural language text and non-text output, based on the embeddings.
[00382] The neural network-based machine learning model architecture of the generative model often includes one or more self-attention layers that allow the model to assign different weights to different portions of the model input (e g., different words or phrases included in the model input). Alternatively or in addition, the neural network architecture includes feed-forward layers and residual connections that allow the model to machine-leam complex data patterns including relationships between different words or phrases in multiple different contexts. The language model or other type of generative model is capable of being constructed using a transformer-based architecture that includes self-attention layers, feed-forward layers, and residual connections between the layers. The exact number and arrangement of layers of each ty pe as well as the hyperparameter values used to configure the model are determined based on the requirements of a particular design or implementation. [00383] In some examples, the neural network-based machine learning model architecture of a generative model includes or is based on one or more generative transformer models, one or more generative pre-trained transformer (GPT) models, one or more bidirectional encoder representations from transformers (BERT) models, one or more large language models (LLMs), one or more XLNet models, and/or one or more other natural language processing (NL) models that significantly advance the state-of-the-art in various linguistic tasks such as machine translation, sentiment analysis, question answering and sentence similarity. In some examples, the neural network-based machine learning model architecture includes or is based on one or more predictive content neural models that receive digital content input and generate one or more outputs based on processing the digital content with one or more neural network models. Examples of predictive neural models include, but are not limited to, Generative Pre-Trained Transformers (GPT), BERT, and/or Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs). In some examples, one or more ty pes of neural network-based machine learning model architecture includes or is based on one or more multimodal neural networks capable of outputting different modalities (e.g., text, image, sound, etc.) separately and/or in combination based on digital content input. Accordingly, in some examples, a multimodal neural network is capable of outputting digital content that includes a combination of two or more of text, images, video or sound.
[00384] A generative language model is capable of being trained on a large dataset of natural language text. In some examples, training samples of natural language text extracted from publicly available data sources are used to train a generative language model. The size and composition of the dataset used to train the generative language model are variable according to the requirements of a particular design or implementation. In some examples, the dataset used to train the generative language model includes hundreds of thousands to millions or more different natural language text training samples. In some examples, a generative language model includes multiple generative language models trained on differently sized datasets. In some examples, a generative language model includes a comprehensive but low capacity model that is trained on a large data set and used for generating examples. The same generative language model also includes a less comprehensive but high capacity model that is trained on a smaller data set, such that the high capacity model is used to generate outputs based on data obtained from the low capacity model. In some examples, reinforcement learning is used to further improve the output of the generative language model. In reinforcement learning, ground-truth examples of desired model output are paired with respective prompts, and these prompt-output pairs are used to train or fine tune the generative language model.
[00385] Prompt engineering is a technique used to optimize the structure and/or content of a prompt input to a generative model. Some prompts include examples of outputs to be generated by the generative model (e.g., few-shot prompts), while other prompts include no examples of outputs to be generated by the generative model (e.g., zero-shot prompts). Chain of thought prompting is a prompt engineering technique where the prompt includes a request that the model explain reasoning in the output. For example, the generative model performs the task described in the prompt using a series of steps and outputs reasoning as to each step performed.
[00386] Supervised learning is a method of training (or fine-tuning) a machine learning model given input-output pairs, where the output of the input-output pair is known (e.g., an expected output, a labeled output, a ground truth). Other training methods including semi-supervised learning or federated learning are capable of being used to train a machine learning model or to fine-tune a pretrained machine learning model.
[00387] To train or fine tune a language model, a prompt is provided as input to the machine learning model. The prompt includes natural language instructions, queries, examples, etc. The machine learning model generates output by applying the weights and nodes of the machine learning model to the prompt. Error is determined by comparing the model output to a reference or expected output over many iterations. For example, changes in the similarity between the model output and the expected output are evaluated over time using a similarity' metric or model performance metric. The error is used to adjust the value of weights in a w eight matrix included in the machine learning model and/or to adjust the number of layers and/or arrangement of layers included in the machine learning model until an acceptable level of error is achieved.
[00388] A machine learning model is trained using a backpropagation algorithm, in some examples. The backpropagation algorithm operates by propagating the error through each of the algorithmic weights of the machine learning model such that the algorithmic weights are adjusted based on the amount of error. The error is calculated at each iteration, batch, and/or epoch. The error is computed using a loss function. An example loss function includes the cross-entropy error function. After a number of training iterations, the machine learning model iteratively converges, e.g., adjusts weight values over time until the model output achieves an acceptable level of accuracy or reliability (e.g., accuracy satisfies a defined tolerance or confidence level). The values of the weights of the trained model (e.g., after convergence) are stored such that the machine learning model is capable of being deployed during inference time.
[00389] The machine learning model 1342 is configured and implemented as a netw ork service, in some examples. The machine learning model 1332 is configured using a machine learning library and an application programming interface (API), e.g., via an API call such as ML library.modeh/?/. p2, ...pn), where p indicates a parameter or argument of the call, such as a model hyperparameter or an input identifier. Once configured, the machine learning model 1342 and/or its output are hosted on one or more servers and/or data storage devices for accessibility to one or more requesting processes, systems, devices, frameworks, or services.
[00390] The examples shown in FIG. 13E and the accompanying description, above are provided for illustration purposes. This disclosure is not limited to the described examples.
[00391] FIG. 14 is a block diagram of an example computer system including components of an agent system in accordance with some examples of the present disclosure.
[00392] In FIG. 14, an example machine of a computer system 1400 is shown, within which a set of instructions for causing the machine to perform any of the methodologies discussed herein are capable of being executed. In some examples, the computer system 1400 corresponds to a component of a networked computer system (e.g., any one or more of the components shown in FIG. 1, FIG. 3, FIG. 4, FIG. 6, FIG. 9, or FIG. 12) that includes, is coupled to, or utilizes a machine to execute an operating system to perform operations corresponding to any one or more components show n in FIG. 1, FIG.3, FIG.4, FIG.6, FIG.9, or FIG. 12. For example, computer system 1400 corresponds to a portion of a computing system when the computing system is executing a portion of any one or more components shown in FIG. 1, FIG. 3, FIG. 4, FIG. 6, FIG. 9, or FIG. 12
[00393] The machine is connected (e.g., networked) to other machines in a network, such as a local area network (LAN), an intranet, an extranet, and/or the Internet. The machine operates in the capacity of a server or a client machine in a client-server network environment, as a peer machine in a peer-to-peer (or distributed) network environment, or as a server or a client machine in a cloud computing infrastructure or environment.
[00394] The machine is a personal computer (PC), a smart phone, a tablet PC, a set-top box (STB), a Personal Digital Assistant (PDA), a cellular telephone, a web appliance, a wearable device, a server, or any machine capable of executing a set of instructions (sequential or otherwise) that specify actions to be taken by that machine. Further, while a single machine is illustrated, the term “machine” includes any collection of machines that individually or jointly execute a set (or multiple sets) of instructions to perform any of the methodologies discussed herein.
[00395] The example computer system 1400 includes a processing device 1402. a main memory 1404 (e.g., read-only memory (ROM), flash memory, dynamic random access memory (DRAM) such as synchronous DRAM (SDRAM) or Rambus DRAM (RDRAM), etc.), a memory 1403 (e.g., flash memory', static random access memory (SRAM), etc.), an input/output system 1410, and a data storage system 1440, which communicate with each other via a bus 1430.
[00396] Processing device 1402 represents one or more general-purpose processing devices such as a microprocessor, a central processing unit, or the like. In some examples, the processing device is a complex instruction set computing (CISC) microprocessor, reduced instruction set computing (RISC) microprocessor, very long instruction word (VLIW) microprocessor, or a processor implementing other instruction sets, or processors implementing a combination of instruction sets. In some examples, processing device 1402 includes a special-purpose processing device such as an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), a field programmable gate array (FPGA), a digital signal processor (DSP), network processor, or the like. The processing device 1402 is to execute instructions 1412 for performing the operations and steps discussed herein.
[00397] In some examples of FIG. 14, agent system 1450 represents portions of automated agent 902 or distributed multi-agent system 905 or agent system 1280 while the computer system 1400 is executing those portions of automated agent 902 or distributed multi-agent system 905 or agent system 1280. Instructions 1412 include portions of agent system 1450 when those portions of the agent system 1450 are being executed by processing device 1402. Thus, the agent system 1450 is shown in dashed lines as part of instructions 1412 to illustrate that, at times, portions of the agent system 1450 are executed by processing device 1402. For example, when at least some portion of the agent system 1450 is embodied in instructions to cause processing device 1402 to perform the method(s) described herein, some of those instructions are read into processing device 1402 (e.g., into an internal cache or other memory) from main memory 1404 and/or data storage system 1440. In some examples, it is not required that all of the agent system 1450 be included in instructions 1412 at the same time and portions of the agent system 1450 are stored in another component of computer system 1400 at other times, e.g., when a portion of the agent system 1450 is not being executed by processing device 1402.
[00398] The computer system 1400 further includes a network interface device 1408 to communicate over the network 1420. Netw ork interface device 1408 provides a two-way data communication coupling to a network. In some examples, network interface device 1408 includes an integrated-services digital network (ISDN) card, cable modem, satellite modem, or a modem to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some examples, netw ork interface device 1408 includes a local area network (LAN) card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links are included, in some examples. Network interface device 1408 sends and receives electrical, electromagnetic, or optical signals that carry digital data representing various types of information.
[00399] The netw ork link is capable of providing data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. In some examples, a network link provides a connection to the world-wide packet data communication network commonly referred to as the "‘Internet,’' for example through a local network to a host computer or to data equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider (ISP). Local networks and the Internet use electrical, electromagnetic, or optical signals that carry digital data to and from computer system computer system 1400.
[00400] Computer system 1400 is capable of sending messages and receiving data, including program code, through the network(s) and network interface device 1408. In some examples, a server is capable of transmitting a requested code for an application program through the Internet and network interface device 1408. The received code is executed by processing device 1402 as it is received, and/or stored in data storage system 1440 or other non-volatile storage for later execution.
[00401] The input/output system 1410 includes an output device, such as a display, for example a liquid cry stal display (LCD) or a touchscreen display, for displaying information to a computer user, or a speaker, a haptic device, or another form of output device. The input/output system 1410 includes an input device, for example, alphanumeric key’s and other keys configured for communicating information and command selections to processing device 1402. An input device sometimes includes a cursor control, such as a mouse, a trackball, or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to processing device 1402 and for controlling cursor movement on a display. An input device sometimes includes a microphone, a sensor, or an array of sensors, for communicating sensed information to processing device 1402. Examples of sensed information include voice commands, audio signals, geographic location information, haptic information, and/or digital imagery’, for example.
[00402] The data storage system 1440 includes a machine-readable storage medium 1442 (also known as a computer-readable medium) on which is stored instructions 1444 or software embodying any of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions 1444 sometimes reside, completely or at least partially, within the main memory 1404 and/or within the processing device 1402 during execution thereof by the computer system 1400, the main memory' 1404 and the processing device 1402 also constituting machine-readable storage media. In one example, the instructions 1444 include instructions to implement functionality7 corresponding to an automated agent or agent system (e.g., any one or more of the components shown in any one or more components shown in FIG. 1, FIG. 3, FIG. 4, FIG. 6, and/or portions of computing system 900 of FIG. 9 or agent system 1280 of FIG. 12).
[00403] Dashed lines are used in FIG. 14 to indicate that it is not required that the agent system be embodied entirely in instructions 1412, 1414, and 1444 at the same time. In one example, portions of the agent system are embodied in instructions 1414, which are read into main memory7 1404 as instructions 1414, and portions of instructions 1412 are read into processing device 1402 as instructions 1412 for execution. In another example, some portions of the agent system are embodied in instructions 1444 while other portions are embodied in instructions 1414 and still other portions are embodied in instructions 1412.
[00404] While the machine-readable storage medium 1442 is shown in an example to be a single medium, the term ‘"machine-readable storage medium” should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media that store the instructions. The term “machine-readable storage medium’’ shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing or encoding a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any of the methodologies of the present disclosure. The term “machine-readable storage medium” shall accordingly be taken to include, but not be limited to, solid-state memories, optical media, and magnetic media.
[00405] The examples shown in FIG. 14 and the accompanying description, above are provided for illustration purposes. This disclosure is not limited to the described examples.
[00406] Some portions of the preceding detailed description have been presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the ways used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work most effectively to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here, and generally, conceived to be a self-consistent sequence of operations leading to a desired result. The operations are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually, though not necessarily, these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored, combined, compared, and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times, principally for reasons of common usage, to refer to these signals as bits, values, elements, symbols, characters, terms, numbers, or the like.
[00407] It should be borne in mind, however, that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. The present disclosure refers to actions and processes of a computer system, or similar electronic computing device, which manipulates and transforms data represented as physical (electronic) quantities within the computer system's registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage systems.
[00408] The present disclosure also relates to an apparatus for performing the operations described herein. This apparatus is specially constructed for the intended purposes, in some examples. In other examples, the apparatus includes a general-purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. In some examples, a computer system or other data processing system including any one or more of the components shown in FIG. 1, FIG. 2A-2C, FIG. 3. FIG. 4, FIG. 6, FIG. 9, FIG. 10, FIG.11A-11B, FIG.
12, and/or FIG. 13A-13E, carries out the above-described computer-implemented methods in response to its processor executing a computer program (e.g., a sequence of instructions) contained in a memon or other non-transitory machine-readable storage medium. Such a computer program is be stored in a computer readable storage medium, such as, but not limited to, any type of disk including floppy disks, optical disks, CD-ROMs, and magnetic-optical disks, read-only memories (ROMs), random access memories (RAMs), EPROMs, EEPROMs, magnetic or optical cards, or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions, each coupled to a computer system bus.
[00409] The algorithms and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general -purpose systems are capable of being used. A more specialized apparatus is constructed, in some examples. Examples of structure for these systems are provided in the description. Aspects of this disclosure are not limited to any particular programming language. A variety of programming languages are usable to implement the various aspects of this disclosure.
[00410] Some examples of the present disclosure are provided as a computer program product, or software, which includes a machine-readable medium having stored thereon instructions, which is used to program a computer system (or other electronic devices) to perform a process according to the present disclosure. A machine-readable medium includes any mechanism for storing information in a form readable by a machine (e.g., a computer). In some examples, a machine-readable (e.g., computer-readable) medium includes a machine (e.g., a computer) readable storage medium such as a read only memory’ (“ROM’"), random access memory' ("RAM"), magnetic disk storage media, optical storage media, flash memory components, etc.
[00411] The techniques described herein are capable of being implemented with privacy safeguards to protect user privacy. Furthermore, the techniques described herein are capable of being implemented with user privacy safeguards to prevent unauthorized access to personal data and confidential data. The training of the Al models described herein is executed to benefit all users fairly, without causing or amplifying unfair bias.
[00412] According to some examples, the techniques for the models described herein do not make inferences or predictions about individuals unless requested to do so through an input. According to some examples, the models described herein do not learn from and are not trained on user data without user authorization. In instances where user data is permitted and authorized for use in Al features and tools, it is done in compliance with a user’s visibility settings, privacy choices, user agreement and descriptions, and the applicable law. According to the techniques described herein, users are capable of having full control over the visibility of their content and who sees their content, as is controlled via the visibility settings. According to the techniques described herein, users are capable of having full control over the level of their personal data that is shared and distributed between different Al platforms that provide different functionalities.
[00413] According to the techniques described herein, users are capable of choosing to share personal data with different platforms to provide services that are more tailored to the users. In instances where the users choose not to share personal data with the platforms, the choices made by the users will not have any impact on their ability to use the services that they had access to prior to making their choice.
[00414] According to the techniques described herein, users are capable of having full control over the level of access to their personal data that is shared with other parties. According to the techniques described herein, personal data provided by users is capable of being processed to determine prompts when using a generative Al feature at the request of the user, but not to train generative Al models. In some examples, users are capable of providing feedback while using the techniques described herein, which is capable of being used to improve or modify the platform and products. In some examples, any personal data associated with a user, such as personal information provided by the user to the platform, is deleted from storage upon user request. In some examples, personal information associated with a user is permanently deleted from storage when a user deletes their account from the platform.
[00415] According to the techniques described herein, personal data is capable of being removed from any training dataset that is used to train Al models. In some examples, the techniques described herein utilize tools for anonymizing member and customer data. A user’s personal data is capable of being redacted and minimized in training datasets for training Al models through delexicalization tools and other privacy enhancing tools for safeguarding user data. The techniques described herein are capable of minimizing use of any personal data in training Al models, including removing and replacing personal data. In examples of the techniques described herein, notices are communicated to users to inform how their data is being used and users are provided controls to opt-out from their data being used for training Al models.
[00416] According to some examples, tools are used with the techniques described herein to identify and mitigate risks associated with Al in all products and Al systems. In some examples, notices are provided to users when Al tools are being used to provide features.
[00417] Illustrative examples of the technologies disclosed herein are provided below. An example of the technologies includes any of the examples described herein, or any combination of any of the examples described herein, or any combination of any portions of the examples described herein.
[00418] In some aspects, the techniques described herein relate to an apparatus including: a processor; a first memory including an action store, wherein the action store includes a hierarchical arrangement of memory layers and a plurality of actions stored in one or more of the memory’ layers, and the action store stores first mappings among actions and second mappings among actions and memory7 layers, wherein the first mappings among actions are hierarchical and an action is executable by an agent; and a second memory7 including an instruction to cause the processor to create or update the first mappings, the second mappings, or the first mappings and the second mappings, in response to a signal received from the agent via a device, the signal indicating (i) input including a task, (ii) feedback relating to an execution of one of the actions by the agent, (iii) performance data associated with the action, or any combination of (i), (ii), (iii).
[00419] In some aspects, the techniques described herein relate to an apparatus, wherein the action includes metadata and the metadata includes an indication of a security level associated with action, or a performance metric associated with the action, or the indication of the security level and the performance metric, and wherein the instruction is to control access to the action according to the indication of the security level and a rule, or the performance metric and the rule, or the security level, the performance metric, and the rule.
[00420] In some aspects, the techniques described herein relate to an apparatus, wherein the first memory is indexed by computing an embedding of the action and mapping the embedding to the action stored in the action store.
[00421] In some aspects, the techniques described herein relate to an apparatus, wherein the memory layers include a first layer storing a first action and a second layer storing a second action, wherein a first security7 policy is associated with the first layer, a second security policy, different from the first security7 policy, is associated with the second layer, and wherein the instruction is to cause the processor to control access to the first layer according to the first security7 policy and control access to the second layer according to the second security policy.
[00422] In some aspects, the techniques described herein relate to an apparatus, wherein the instruction is to cause the processor to (i) move the first action from the first layer to the second layer, (ii) move the second action from the second layer to the first layer, (iii) combine a plurality of actions into the first action, (iv) expand the first action into a plurality7 of actions, or any combination of (i), (ii), (iii), (iv).
[00423] In some aspects, the techniques described herein relate to a computer-implemented method including: using an input to determine a task, wherein the input is obtained via a device and an agent accessible via the device; using the task to search an action store, wherein the action store includes a hierarchical arrangement of actions executable by the agent; in response to determining that the action store includes an action that corresponds to the task, providing access to the action to the agent; and triggering the agent to execute the action.
[00424] In some aspects, the techniques described herein relate to a method, further including: providing the input and a first instruction to a machine learning model, wherein the first instruction is to cause the machine learning model to determine the task; and receiving the task from the machine learning model in response to the first instruction.
[00425] In some aspects, the techniques described herein relate to a method, further including: providing the task and a second instruction to the machine learning model, wherein the second instruction is to cause the machine learning model to identify the action that corresponds to the task using embedding-based retrieval retrieval-augmented generation, or embedding-based retrieval and retrieval-augmented generation; and receiving the identified action from the machine learning model in response to the second instruction.
[00426] In some aspects, the techniques described herein relate to a method, wherein the second instruction is to instruct the machine learning model to determine requirements for performing the task and to determine whether the action is capable of performing the requirements.
[00427] In some aspects, the techniques described herein relate to a method, further including: in response to determining that the action is not capable of performing the requirements, providing the task and a third instruction to the machine learning model, wherein the third instruction is to cause the machine learning model to iteratively decompose the task into sub-tasks until the action is capable of performing the sub-tasks.
[00428] In some aspects, the techniques described herein relate to a method, further including: providing the task and a fourth instruction to the machine learning model, wherein the fourth instruction is to cause the machine learning model to identify a plurality of actions that correspond to the task, rank the plurality' of actions according to a first criterion associated with the task, and select the action from the ranked plurality' of actions according to a second criterion associated with the task; and receiving the selected action from the machine learning model in response to the fourth instmction.
[00429] In some aspects, the techniques described herein relate to a method, further including: in response to determining that a value of a performance metric associated with a first version of the action stored in a first layer of a multi-layer memory meets or exceeds a performance criterion, providing access to the agent to execute the first version of the action from the first layer of the multi-layer memory.
[00430] In some aspects, the techniques described herein relate to a method, wherein the agent is a robot or self-driving vehicle.
[00431] In some aspects, the techniques described herein relate to a method, further including: determining a mutability' characteristic of the action, wherein the mutability7 characteristic is an indication of ability of the agent to self-mutate by executing the action; and using the mutability' characteristic to control the access to the action by the agent.
[00432] In some aspects, the techniques described herein relate to a computer-implemented method including: receiving a signal via an agent, wherein the signal relates to a first execution of a task by the agent using an action store, wherein the action store includes a hierarchical arrangement of memory' layers, and the action store includes a plurality of actions stored in one or more of the memory layers, and the action store stores first mappings between actions and second mappings between actions and memory layers, wherein the first mappings among actions are hierarchical, and an action is executable by the agent; using the signal to modify the action store; and providing the modified portion of the action store to a second execution of the task by the agent.
[00433] In some aspects, the techniques described herein relate to a method, further including: using the signal to create or update the first mappings, the second mappings, or the first mappings and the second mappings.
[00434] In some aspects, the techniques described herein relate to a method, further including: in response to the signal, (i) moving the action from a first layer of the memory layers to a second layer of the memory layers, (ii) moving the action from the second layer to the first layer, or any combination of (i) and (ii).
[00435] In some aspects, the techniques described herein relate to a method, further including: using the signal and a trajectory optimization mechanism to combine a plurality of actions into the action or expand the action into a plurality of actions.
[00436] In some aspects, the techniques described herein relate to a method, wherein the task includes detecting and blocking malicious access to a cloud service and the agent is fully autonomous security software executing on a user computing device .
[00437] In some aspects, the techniques described herein relate to a method, wherein the agent is a robot or self-driving vehicle.
[00438] In some aspects, the techniques described herein relate to a method, system, apparatus, or non-transitory computer readable medium comprising any combination of any of the aspects shown or described anywhere in this disclosure, including in any of (i) the preceding claims, (ii) the specification, (iii) the drawings, or (iv) any combination of (i), (ii), (iii).
[00439] Clause 1. An apparatus comprising: a processor; a first memory comprising an action store (128), wherein the action store (128) comprises ahierarchical arrangement of memory layers (132)and a plurality of actions stored in one or more of the memory layers, and the action store stores first mappings (134) among actions and second mappings (136) among actions and memory layers, wherein the first mappings among actions are hierarchical and an action is executable by an agent (902); and a second memoiy' comprising an instruction to cause the processor to create or update the first mappings (134).the second mappings (136), or the first mappings (134) and the second mappings (136), in response to a signal received from the agent (902) via a device, the signal indicating (i) input comprising a task, (ii) feedback relating to an execution of one of the actions by the agent, (iii) performance data associated with the action, or any combination of (i), (ii )■ (hi).
[00440] Clause 2. The apparatus of clause 1. wherein the action comprises metadata and the metadata comprises an indication of a security level associated with action, or a performance metric associated with the action, or the indication of the security level and the performance metric, and wherein the instruction is to control access to the action according to the indication of the security level and a rule, or the performance metric and the rule, or the security level, the performance metric, and the rule.
[00441] Clause 3. The apparatus of clause 1 or clause 2, wherein the first memory is indexed by computing an embedding of the action and mapping the embedding to the action stored in the action store.
[00442] Clause 4. The apparatus of any preceding clause, wherein the memory layers comprise a first layer storing a first action and a second layer storing a second action, wherein a first security policy is associated with the first layer, a second security policy, different from the first security policy, is associated with the second layer, and wherein the instruction is to cause the processor to control access to the first layer according to the first security policy and control access to the second layer according to the second security policy.
[00443] Clause 5. The apparatus of clause 4, wherein the instruction is to cause the processor to (i) move the first action from the first layer to the second layer, (ii) move the second action from the second layer to the first layer, (iii) combine a plurality of actions into the first action, (iv) expand the first action into a plurality of actions, or any combination of (i). (ii), (iii), (iv) .
[00444] Clause 6. A computer-implemented method comprising: using an input to determine a task, wherein the input is obtained via a device and an agent (902) accessible via the device; using the task to search an action store, wherein the action store comprises a hierarchical arrangement of actions executable by the agent (902); in response to determining that the action store comprises an action that corresponds to the task, providing access to the action to the agent (902); and triggering the agent (902) to execute the action.
[00445] Clause 7. The method of clause 6, further comprising: providing the input and a first instruction to a machine learning model, wherein the first instruction is to cause the machine learning model to determine the task; and receiving the task from the machine learning model in response to the first instruction.
[00446] Clause 8. The method of clause 7, further comprising: providing the task and a second instruction to the machine learning model, wherein the second instruction is to cause the machine learning model to identify the action that corresponds to the task using embedding-based retrieval retrieval-augmented generation, or embedding-based retrieval and retrieval-augmented generation; and receiving the identified action from the machine learning model in response to the second instruction.
[00447] Clause 9. The method of clause 8, wherein the second instruction is to instruct the machine learning model to determine requirements for performing the task and to determine whether the action is capable of performing the requirements.
[00448] Clause 10. The method of clause 9, further comprising: in response to determining that the action is not capable of performing the requirements, providing the task and a third instruction to the machine learning model, wherein the third instruction is to cause the machine learning model to iteratively decompose the task into sub-tasks until the action is capable of performing the sub-tasks.
[00449] Clause 11. The method of clause 7, further comprising: providing the task and a fourth instruction to the machine learning model, wherein the fourth instruction is to cause the machine learning model to identify a plurality of actions that correspond to the task, rank the plurality of actions according to a first criterion associated with the task, and select the action from the ranked plurality7 of actions according to a second criterion associated with the task; and receiving the selected action from the machine learning model in response to the fourth instruction.
[00450] Clause 12. The method of clause 7, further comprising: in response to determining that a value of a performance metric associated with a first version of the action stored in a first layer of a multi-layer memory7 meets or exceeds a performance criterion, providing access to the agent to execute the first version of the action from the first layer of the multi-layer memory.
[00451] Clause 13. The method of clause 7, wherein the agent is a fully autonomous physical robot or self-driving vehicle.
[00452] Clause 14. The method of clause 7, further comprising: determining a mutability characteristic of the action, wherein the mutability7 characteristic is an indication of ability of the agent to self-mutate by executing the action; and using the mutability characteristic to control the access to the action by the agent.
[00453] Clause 15. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving a signal via an agent (902), wherein the signal relates to a first execution of a task by the agent (902) using an action store (128). wherein the action store comprises a hierarchical arrangement of memory7 layers (132). and the action store comprises a plurality7 of actions stored in one or more of the memory layers, and the action store stores first mappings (134) between actions and second mappings (136) between actions and memory7 layers, wherein the first mappings among actions are hierarchical, and an action is executable by the agent (902); using the signal to modify7 the action store; and providing the modified portion of the action store to a second execution of the task by the agent (902).
[00454] Clause 16. The method of clause 15, further comprising: using the signal to create or update the first mappings, the second mappings, or the first mappings and the second mappings.
[00455] Clause 17. The method of clause 15 or clause 16, further comprising: in response to the signal, (i) moving the action from a first layer of the memory layers to a second layer of the memory layers, (ii) moving the action from the second layer to the first layer, or any combination of (i) and (ii).
[00456] Clause 18. The method of any of clauses 15-17. further comprising: using the signal and a traj ectory optimization mechanism to combine a plurality of actions into the action or expand the action into a plurality of actions.
[00457] Clause 19. The method of any of clauses 15-17, wherein the task comprises detecting and blocking malicious access to a cloud service and the agent is fully autonomous security' software executing on a user computing device .
[00458] Clause 20. The method of any of clauses 15-17, wherein the agent is a fully autonomous physical robot or self-driving vehicle.
[00459] Clause 21. A method, system, apparatus, or non-transitory computer readable medium comprising any combination of any of the aspects shown or described anywhere in this disclosure, including in any of (i) the preceding claims, (ii) the specification, (iii) the drawings, or (iv) any combination of (i), (ii), (iii).
[00460] Aspects of the disclosure have been described with reference to specific examples thereof. The described examples are modifiable without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure reflected in the claims. The specification and drawings are illustrative and not restrictive.
Claims
Hide Dependent 
1. An apparatus comprising:
a processor;
a first memory comprising an action store (128), wherein the action store (128) comprises a hierarchical arrangement of memory layers (132)and a plurality of actions stored in one or more of the memory layers, and the action store stores first mappings (134) among actions and second mappings (136) among actions and memory layers, wherein the first mappings among actions are hierarchical and an action is executable by an agent (902); and a second memory comprising an instruction to cause the processor to update the first mappings (134) or the second mappings (136) in response to a signal received from a device, the signal relating to (i) a requested task (ii) an execution of one of the actions by the agent, (iii) performance data associated with one of the actions, or any combination of (i), (ii), (in).
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the action comprises metadata and the metadata compnses an indication of a security level associated with the action, or a performance metric associated with the action, or the indication of the security level and the performance metric, and wherein the instruction is to control access to the action according to the indication of the security level and a rule, or the performance metric and the rule, or the security’ level, the performance metric, and the rule.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first memory is indexed by computing an embedding of the action and mapping the embedding to the action stored in the action store.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the memory layers comprise a first layer storing a first action and a second layer storing a second action, wherein a first security policy is associated with the first layer, a second security policy, different from the first security policy, is associated with the second layer, and wherein the instruction is to cause the processor to control access to the first layer according to the first security policy and control access to the second layer according to the second security policy.
5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the instruction is to cause the processor to (i) move the first action from the first layer to the second layer, (ii) move the second action from the second layer to the first layer, (iii) combine a plurality of actions into the first action, (iv) expand the first action into a plurality of actions, or any combination of (i), (ii). (iii), (iv) .
6. A computer-implemented method comprising:
using an input to determine a task, wherein the input is obtained via a device and an agent (902) accessible via the device;
using the task to search an action store, wherein the action store comprises a hierarchical arrangement of actions executable by the agent (902);
in response to determining that the action store comprises an action that corresponds to the task, providing access to the action to the agent (902); and
triggering the agent (902) to execute the action.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising:
providing the input and a first instruction to a machine learning model, wherein the first instruction is to cause the machine learning model to determine the task; and
receiving the task from the machine learning model in response to the first instruction.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising:
providing the task and a second instruction to the machine learning model, wherein the second instruction is to cause the machine learning model to identify the action that corresponds to the task using embedding-based retrieval retrieval-augmented generation, or embedding-based retrieval and retrieval-augmented generation; and
receiving the identified action from the machine learning model in response to the second instruction.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the second instruction is to instruct the machine learning model to determine requirements for performing the task and to determine whether the action is capable of performing the requirements.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising:
in response to determining that the action is not capable of performing the requirements, providing the task and a third instruction to the machine learning model, wherein the third instruction is to cause the machine learning model to iteratively decompose the task into sub-tasks until the action is capable of performing the sub-tasks.
11. The method of claim 7, further comprising:
providing the task and a fourth instruction to the machine learning model, wherein the fourth instruction is to cause the machine learning model to identify a plurality’ of actions that correspond to the task, rank the plurality of actions according to a first enterion associated with the task, and select the action from the ranked plurality of actions according to a second criterion associated with the task; and
receiving the selected action from the machine learning model in response to the fourth instruction.
12. The method of claim 7, further comprising:
in response to determining that a value of a performance metric associated w ith a first version of the action stored in a first layer of a multi-layer memory meets or exceeds a performance criterion, providing access to the agent to execute the first version of the action from the first layer of the multi-layer memory. 13. The method of claim 7, wherein the agent is a fully autonomous physical robot or self-driving vehicle.
14. The method of claim 7, further comprising:
determining a mutability characteristic of the action, wherein the mutability characteristic is an indication of abil i ty of the agent to self-mutate by executing the action; and
using the mutability characteristic to control the access to the action by the agent.
15. A computer-implemented method comprising:
receiving a signal via an agent (902), wherein the signal relates to a first execution of a task by the agent (902) using an action store (128), wherein the action store comprises a hierarchical arrangement of memory layers (132), and the action store comprises a plurality of actions stored in one or more of the memory layers, and the action store stores first mappings (134) between actions and second mappings (136) between actions and memory layers, wherein the first mappings among actions are hierarchical, and an action is executable by the agent (902);
using the signal to modify the action store; and
providing the modified portion of the action store to a second execution of the task by the agent (902).
16. The method of claim 15. further comprising:
using the signal to create or update the first mappings, the second mappings, or the first mappings and the second mappings.
17. The method of claim 15, further comprising:
in response to the signal, (i) moving the action from a first layer of the memory layers to a second layer of the memory layers, (ii) moving the action from the second layer to the first layer, or any combination of (i) and (ii).
18. The method of claim 15, further comprising:
using the signal and a trajectory optimization mechanism to combine a plurality of actions into the action or expand the action into a plurality of actions.
19. The method of claim 15, wherein the task comprises detecting and blocking malicious access to a cloud sendee and the agent is fully autonomous security software executing on a user computing device .
20. The method of claim 15, wherein the agent is a fully autonomous physical robot or self-driving vehicle.

JP2022541883A：

Description
本明細書に記載の実施形態は、人工知能の分野、並びに具現化されたエージェントの記憶（Memory in Embodied Agents）を実装及び使用するためのシステム及び方法に関する。より具体的には、限定するものではないが、本明細書に記載の実施形態は、教師なし学習に関する。
人工知能（Artificial Intelligence、ＡＩ）の目的は、人間のような学習及び記憶を含む、人間と同様の能力を有するコンピュータシステムを構築することである。ほとんどの現代の機械学習技術は、「オフライン」学習に依存しており、ＡＩシステムには、特定のドメインを学習して、それに限定するために準備され、かつクリーンにされたデータが提供される。先行技術における顕著な課題は、人間のような方法で世界のオブジェクト及びイベントを経験し、かつ具体化された相互作用から学習する、ＡＩシステムを作り出すことに留まる。それらの実施形態及びそれらの環境との感覚運動的フィードバックループにより、そのようなＡＩエージェントは、それら自身の学習に影響を及ぼし、ガイドすることができる。そのようなエージェントは、世界からのマルチモーダルデータのストリームの意味を理解し、情報を有意義かつ有用な方法で保持するであろう。更に顕著な課題は、それ自身の経験から学習することができ、並びに外部ソース（人間のユーザなど）によってその記憶をオーサリング又は変更させることができる、柔軟なＡＩの具現化されたエージェントを作り出すことである。階層的一時的記憶（Hierarchical Temporal Memory、ＨＴＭ）は、皮質層の類似体として複数のレジスタを有する計算構造に基づく人間の記憶を複製するためのアプローチである。ＨＴＭは、大脳皮質のパッチを複製するように構成されている。それにもかかわらず、ＨＴＭは、具現化されたエージェントが感覚運動的経験からリアルタイムで学習し発達することを可能にする、具現化されたエージェントの記憶（Memory in Embodied Agents）を提供することができない。
図１は、ＣＤＺアーキテクチャの概略図。 図２は、ＡＳＯＭ。 図３は、異なるモダリティの適格性信号。 図４は、適格性トレースが適格性ウィンドウを作成する方法。 図５は、学習イベントのフェーズ。 図６は、異なるモダリティの適格性を設定するためのユーザインターフェース。 図７は、ＡＳＯＭ訓練の表示。 図８は、クエリビューア入力フィールド。 図９は、クエリパターンを指定するためのユーザインターフェース。 図１０は、ＬＴＭ及びＳＴＭの表示。 図１１は、作業記憶システム（ＷＭシステム）。
計算構造は、経験からリアルタイムで入力し、かつ／又はオーサリングすることができる記憶を有する具現化されたエージェントを提供する。具現化されたエージェント（仮想オブジェクト、デジタルエンティティ、又はロボットであってもよい）には、具現化されたエージェントの挙動に影響を与える、又は指示する１つ以上の経験記憶ストアが提供される。経験記憶ストアは、収束発散ゾーン（Convergence Divergence Zone、ＣＤＺ）を含むことができ、これは、想起中に再経験することができる心的イメージ又はシミュレーションの形態で外部現実を表すように人間の記憶の能力をシミュレートする。記憶データベースは、簡単でオーサリング可能な方法で生成され、具現化されたエージェントのライブ動作中に経験を学習又はオーサリングすることを可能にする。適格性に基づく学習は、マルチモーダル情報のストリームからのどの態様が経験記憶ストアに記憶されるかを判定する。
経験記憶ストア
一実施形態では、エージェントによって経験された経験は、１つ以上の経験記憶ストアに記憶される。「経験」は、オブジェクト、イベント、感情、観察、アクション、又はそれらの任意の組み合わせなどの、具現化されたエージェントが感知又は知覚することができる何でもとして広く解釈されるべきである。経験記憶ストア（単数又は複数）は、ニューラルネットワーク重みに経験の次元を縮小した表現を記憶することができる。
収束発散ゾーンＣＤＺ
一実施形態では、経験記憶ストアは、収束発散ゾーン（ＣＤＺ）として実装される。ＣＤＺは、アクティビティが記録されるサイトから収束投影を受信し、かつ発散投影を同じサイトに返す、ネットワークである。ＣＤＺのパターンは、部分的に提示された知覚パターンを完了する、又はそのようなパターンに応じて作用する「気質」を保持する。階層的上流結合記憶は、下位感覚及び／又はモータマップのアクティビティの組み合わせを関連付けて、構成要素特性の下流再構築を可能にする潜在記憶（例えば、オブジェクトの集約特性）を形成する。例えば、オブジェクト分類に使用することができるオブジェクトの経験を記憶する経験記憶ストアは、以下のようにＣＤＺを使用して実装することができる。各ユニモーダルオブジェクト分類経路は、ＣＤＺの階層であり、オブジェクトの明示的なマップは、知覚中に構築され、想起中に再構築される。任意の単一の下位レベルモダリティでパターンをアクティブ化することにより、１つが学習された場合、上位レベルのマルチモーダルＣＤＺのパターンをトリガすることができる。次いで、このアクティビティは、他のＣＤＺに「トップダウン」で流入するアクティビティをトリガして、初期パターンに関連付けられた、経験記憶ストアが学習したパターンをアクティブ化することができる。
図１は、ＣＤＺ１の図を示す。マルチモーダルＣＤＺは、各上位レベルのユニモーダルＣＤＺの上に位置する。２つのモダリティＸとＹとの間の関連付けは、ＸからＹへの直接リンクによってではなく、Ｘ及びＹの両方に独立してリンクされた別個の領域（「収束ゾーン」）Ｚに保持される。表現は、複数の領域から領域Ｚの領域に収束する。収束ゾーンの宣言的表現は、下位領域内の刺激間の関連付けを記憶する。関連付けを明らかにするために、パターンは、明示的にアクティブ化される。収束ゾーン表現がアクティブ化されると、それは、下位領域のセット内の関連付けられたパターンのアクティビティを明らかにし、したがって、単一の領域からある範囲の領域にアクティビティを拡散させる「発散ゾーン」として機能する。
収束発散ゾーンは、いくつかのモダリティから入力を受信することができ、次いでモダリティのいずれかによってアクティブ化することができる、マップを使用して実装することができる。マップは、下位レベルマップからアクティベーションマップを取って同時アクティベーションを関連付けることによって、異なる入力を関連付ける、結合自己編成マップ（Associative Self-Organizing Maps、ＡＳＯＭ）であってもよい。ＡＳＯＭは、ニューロン重みベクトルに対応する入力フィールドのサイズ及び数を有する入力ベクトルを受信し、各入力フィールドは、異なるモダリティ又は入力タイプを表す。多くの入力に対して訓練されると、マップは、同様の入力のトポロジー的グループ化を学習する。ＡＳＯＭは、「ボトムアップ」構築様式及び「トップダウン」再構築様式の両方で機能することができる。ＡＳＯＭは、入力情報に対して比較することができる予測を生成することができる。最下位レベルの（関連付けられていない）感覚、モータ、又は他のアクティビティサイトは、自己編成マップなどのマップとして、又は任意の他の適切な方法で実装することができる。
図３は、下位レベルＳＯＭと上位レベルＡＳＯＭとの間のマッピングを示し、ＡＳＯＭは、収束ゾーン（ＣＤＺ）の構造的構築入力フィールドである。下位レベルＳＯＭＳは、視覚、オーディオ、タッチ、神経化学（Neurochemical、ＮＣ）、及び位置のモダリティに対応する感覚運動的入力を含む。ＣＤＺの階層的に構造化されたセットでは、下位のＣＤＺ ＳＯＭは、上位レベルのＣＤＺ ＳＯＭへの入力を提供する。収束発散ゾーンとして機能する上位レベルＡＳＯＭは、視覚－オーディオ－タッチ（Visual-Audio-Touch、ＶＡＴ）、視覚－モータ（Visual-Motor、ＶＭ）、視覚－神経化学（Visual-Neurochemical、ＶＮＣ）を含む。視覚－オーディオ－タッチ（ＶＡＴ）ＡＳＯＭ収束発散ゾーンは、上位レベルのＶＡＴ－アクティビティ－位置ＡＳＯＭ内の位置モダリティに関連付けられている。
ＣＤＺは、リアルタイム学習システムがマルチモーダル記憶及び情動記憶を記憶することを可能にする。これは、例えば、具現化されたエージェントが犬を「想像する」又は単語「犬」を聞くと、犬を表す上位レベルＡＳＯＭ内の１つ以上のニューロンがアクティブ化される方法である。上位レベルのＡＳＯＭは、（犬の画像を示す）視覚、（犬がほえるのを聞く）オーディオの下位レベル感覚マップ、及び更には、それらが最初に犬を経験したときに感じた具現化されたエージェントが経験した感情を再現する感情的状態マップへのポインタを有する。
モダリティ
「モダリティ」は、その表現、発現、又は経験を含む、存在する何かの態様として広く解釈されるべきである。オブジェクト及び／又はイベントは、視覚、オーディオ、タッチ、モータ、及び神経化学を含むがこれらに限定されない、異なるモダリティで経験することができる。一実施形態では、各モダリティ入力は、個々のＳＯＭによって表され、かつ／又は学習される。各モダリティに関連付けられたマップを含むアーキテクチャを使用してもよく、その結果、２つ以上のモダリティが同時に経験されるとき、組み合わせは、それらの元の下位マップ内の２つの感覚の各々へのポインタとして、上位レベルの（結合）マップに記憶される。結合マップは、それが関連付けるモダリティのいずれかに対応する入力によってアクティブ化することができる。モダリティのうちの１つのみからの入力が受信される場合、他のモダリティからの対応する表現を予測することができる。
視覚入力は、任意の好適な様式で、具現化されたエージェントにストリーミングすることができる。一実施形態では、現実世界の環境を捕捉するカメラを介して、視覚が、具現化されたエージェントに提供される。視覚は、ユーザインターフェースのスクリーンキャストから、又は他の方法でコンピュータシステムから送達することができる。したがって、具現化されたエージェントの視覚は、人間のユーザをカメラを介して見ることを含むことができる現実世界、若しくは「仮想世界」若しくは計算表現（画面表現若しくはＶＲ／ＡＲシステム表現など）、又はこれら２つの任意の組み合わせを対象とすることができる。「現実世界」及び「インターフェース」の視野の両方は、具現化されたエージェントが２つの別個の視野を有するように、具現化されたエージェントに対して表すことができる。各視野は、注意を制御する関連付けられた顕著性マップを有することができる。一実施形態では、これら２つのマップにわたる単一の顕著な領域のみが、注意のためにこれまで選択されており、そのため、それが注意ルーチンになると、２つの視野は、２つの部分を有する単一の視野として取り扱うことができる。カメラ入力のサブ領域は、仮想「中心窩」、すなわち、具現化されたエージェントの眼が向けられている場所に対応するビデオ入力のより小さな領域に自動的にマッピングすることができる。中心窩画像サブ領域は、モジュール、例えば、影響分類器及び／又はオブジェクト分類器で更に処理することができる。これにより、具現化されたエージェントがカメラ入力の小さい部分のみに注意を向けて、次元を縮小することが可能になる。一実施形態では、２８×２８のＲＧＢ中心窩画像が提供される。周辺画像も処理することができるが、はるかに低い解像度である。
オーディオ入力は、聴覚システムで処理される波形を捕捉する、マイクロフォンを介して送達することができる。一実施形態では、音響特性をＦＦＴ及び他の技術を用いて分析して、スペクトログラムを作成し、これを、聴覚ＳＯＭへの入力として使用する（例えば、２０×１４（ｆ×ｔ）のスペクトログラム）。聴覚ＳＯＭは、オーディオ入力の周波数特定性マップを学習する。代替的及び／又は追加的に、オーディオファイルからのもの又はコンピュータシステムからのストリーミングなどのデジタルオーディオ入力を、具現化されたエージェントに送達することができる。音響信号は、入力語句に対応する値のベクトルを提供するディープニューラルネットワークを介して分析することができる。これらは、単語マッピングを学習する第２の独立した聴覚ＳＯＭに供給される。周波数特定性及び単語マップは、オーディオモダリティの最終表現である上位レベルの聴覚ＡＳＯＭによって更に統合することができる。
タッチ感覚は、仮想環境とのその相互作用に基づいて、具現化されたエージェントに提供することができる。例えば、具現化されたエージェントの身体の一部が具現化されたエージェントの環境内の別のオブジェクトと交差する場合は常に、オブジェクト交差は、具現化されたエージェントのタッチ感覚をトリガすることができる。そのようなタッチ感覚は、具現化されたエージェントの身体の固有受容性マップ、具現化されたエージェントの環境のマップ、及び／又は任意の他のモダリティに関連付けることができる。具現化されたエージェントが仮想世界の特定の「タッチ可能な」オブジェクトにタッチする場合、衝突が検出され、具現化されたエージェントのエフェクタ（例えば、指）上の機械受容器で、アクティビティがトリガされる。タッチ感覚は、マウス、キーボード、又はタッチスクリーンなどのコンピュータ入力デバイスを介して、具現化されたエージェントに提供することができる。例えば、スクリーンに「タッチすること」により、具現化されたエージェント身体の一部に突出し、（タッチスクリーン上の）指又はマウスカーソルを機械受容器マップに「接触させる」。記号入力（例えば、キーボード入力）は、任意のタッチ感覚、例えば、オブジェクトテクスチャにマッピングすることができる。例えば、触覚オブジェクトタイプＳＯＭは、異なるオブジェクトテクスチャをマッピングすることができる。オブジェクトの形状もまた、タッチ及びモータの移動の両方を伴う触覚システムを介して登録することができる。
「位置」モダリティは、具現化されたエージェントの中心窩のｘ及びｙ座標を含む中心窩位置を表すことができる。座標は、位置からアクティビティへのＳＯＭを介して１０×１０のアクティベーションマップに直接変換することができる。
内受容性感覚は、具現化されたエージェントの身体の内部状態の具現化されたエージェントの知覚感覚である。内受容性状態空間マップは、空腹、渇望、疲労、心拍数、痛み、及び嫌悪に関するなど、身体の瞬間状態を表す信号からの入力を取ることによって形成される。神経化学パラメータは、情動システムの一部である生理学的内部状態変数を表す。内受容性マップは、具現化されたエージェントの状態空間を表す。モデル化することができる神経調節物質の例としては、モータ機能のためのアセチルコリン、ストレス指標としてのコルチゾール、社会的結合のためのオキシトシンが挙げられる。主要な感情の基本的な表現は、高次元神経化学空間にマッピングすることができ、これは、行動応答を変調して、連続的な直感的に感じた状態から個別の心理的カテゴリへのマッピングを提供する。内受容性感覚は、イベントが身体の感情的な神経化学状態に関連付けられているため、具現化されたエージェントの意思決定に寄与することができ、その結果、想像されたイベントの想起された感情は、意思決定の要因である。
固有受容性システムは、エージェントのエフェクタ（例えば、手足、頭、及びエージェントの胴体の構成）の位置を含む、具現化されたエージェントの身体の構成に関する固有受容器を介した知覚認識を有する具現化されたエージェントを提供する。固有受容性マップは、具現化されたエージェントの身体の骨格モデルから送達される各関節の角度に関する情報を含むことができる。具現化されたエージェントの筋肉組織のより詳細な生体力学モデルでは、固有受容性マップはまた、筋肉伸張及び張力に関する情報を含むことができる。モータモダリティを使用して、アクションのタイプをマッピングすることができる。
個々の単語は、書かれた単語、聴覚音素表現、及び／又は他の記号を介して、オブジェクト、アクション、イベント、又は概念の表現に関連付けることができる。概念の表現に関連付けられた１つ以上の記号は、概念を表す感覚モダリティに関連付けられるモダリティとして記憶することができる。
味覚、嗅覚などの任意の他の好適なモダリティ（又は同様のものの仮想表現）を実装することができる。モダリティの特定の態様は、それら自体のモダリティとしてモデル化することができる。例えば、視覚モダリティは、光モダリティ、色モダリティ、及び形態モダリティを含むいくつかのモダリティに分割することができる。温度、痛み、空腹、又はバランスなどの内部感覚は、モデル化することができる。
経験記憶ストアを直接オーサリングする
その訓練後重みを有する訓練されたニューラルネットワーク（ＳＯＭなど）を、重みを直接経験していない具現化されたエージェントに記憶することが可能である。このようにして、「空白の」具現化されたエージェントに、その経験記憶ストア（単数又は複数）のニューラルネットワーク重みに埋め込まれた（例えば、オブジェクトの）知識を提供することができる。
記憶データベース（記憶ファイル）
一実施形態では、経験の表現は、経験記憶ストアに加えて、記憶データベースに記憶することができる。記憶データベースは、具現化されたエージェントの経験を介して自動的に入力及び／又はオーサリングすることができる。ユーザ又は自動システムは、記憶データベースに記憶された記憶を取り出し、記憶データベース内の新しい記憶をオーサリングし、かつ／又は記憶を削除することができる。各経験されたモダリティの表現に対応する生データは、記憶データベースに記憶し、対応する経験に関連付けることができる。例えば、視覚モダリティに関する記憶の構成要素は、画像ファイル（例えば、ＪＰＥＧ、ＰＮＧなど）にリンクすることができ、聴覚モダリティに関する構成要素は、オーディオファイル（例えば、ＭＰ３）にリンクすることができる。
記憶データベースは、任意の好適な様式で、例えば、ファイルの集合を記憶するデータベース及び／又はフォルダとして、実装することができる。一実施形態では、記憶データベースは、経験を記憶するＣＳＶファイルである。ＣＳＶエントリは、エントリに対応する経験に関連付けられた生データの表現を含む、又はそれを指すことができる。関連付けられた画像又は生の入力に対応する他の生データとして記憶を記憶することにより、経験をエージェントによって再生／処理することが可能になる。具現化されたエージェントは、具現化されたエージェントがそれらを経験しているかのように、それらの入力を学習することができる。
一実施形態では、具現化されたエージェントのライブ動作中、具現化されたエージェントは、経験記憶ストア並びに記憶データベースの両方に経験の記憶を同時に記憶する。例えば、ほえる犬の経験は、経験記憶ストアに記憶されたマルチモーダル記憶として記憶し、また、画像、音、感情価、及びテキスト／音声発話を含む他の関連するマルチモーダルデータを含む、記憶データベース内の経験に対応するエントリの属性としても記憶することができる。
ファイル内の経験を記憶することはまた、イベントが起こった時間（タイムスタンプ）、イベントのＧＰＳ位置、又は経験に関する任意の他のコンテキスト情報などの、経験に関するメタデータ又は追加のデータを記憶することを伴うことができる。
経験を介して記憶を入力する
一実施形態では、記憶データベースに記憶された記憶は、具現化されたエージェントのライブ動作の過程で、具現化されたエージェントのリアルタイム経験から入力される。エージェントは、また本発明の譲受人に譲渡され、参照により本明細書に組み込まれる、「Ｍａｃｈｉｎｅ Ｉｎｔｅｒａｃｔｉｏｎ」と題されたニュージーランド仮特許出願第ＮＺ７４４４１０号に記載されているように、現実世界及び／又は仮想世界からの感覚ストリームと相互作用する。
本明細書に記載されるように、具現化されたエージェントは、経験を介して、新しい、感情的、又はユーザがシグナリングした経験を選択的に学習することができる。その経験記憶ストアがＣＤＺとして実装される具現化されたエージェントでは、記憶は、ＣＤＺに記憶される。経験の新しい記憶がＣＤＺに記憶される場合は常に、下位レベルＳＯＭからの表現は、記憶データベースへの新しいエントリの属性及び／又はファイルとして保存される。
記憶データベースを介して経験記憶ストアを訓練する
記憶データベースを使用して、経験記憶ストアを訓練することができる。記憶データベース内のエントリは、統合中に経験記憶ストアへの訓練入力として提供される。経験記憶ストア内に符号化された記憶により、エージェントがオブジェクト、概念、イベントを認識して、予測することが可能になる。一例として、ユーザは、特定の学習ドメインの入力ファイルのセットを生成することができる。例えば、エージェントは、犬の名前を含む記号、それらのほえる音のスペクトログラム、及び犬が引き起こすことになる情動反応などの関連付けられたモダリティを有する異なる犬種の画像を有する記憶データベースを提供されることによって、ライブ動作中に犬を経験することなく「犬の専門家」になることができる。
ＣＤＺの実装形態では、記憶データベース内のエントリは、ＣＤＺを再訓練するために使用され、基礎となる収束／発散ゾーン（例えば、ＳＯＭ／ＡＳＯＭ）の重みを変更する。訓練中、エントリに対応する生ファイル／データは、経験記憶ストアによって一度に１つの経験を再読み取りされる。オブジェクト学習イベントを例に取ると、視覚、聴覚、及びタッチのモダリティに対応する生データがロードされ、学習イベントをトリガする。記憶統合中に発生する長期記憶学習イベントは、「記憶統合」と題されたセクションで考察されるように、リアルタイム学習よりもはるかに速い時間スケールで起こり得る。一実施形態では、エージェントを「訓練する」ために使用されている生ファイルは、エージェントが過去の経験を「追体験する」又は「再び想像する」際に、エージェントの「夢想」をシミュレートするために表示することができる。
記憶を再構築する
記憶データベース内のエントリは、再読み取りされて、記憶を再構築することができる。例えば、それらは、短期記憶経験記憶ストアを訓練して、「仮想イベント」を生成する、又は記憶統合中に長期記憶経験記憶ストアを訓練することができる。生の感覚入力が下位レベルマップのニューロンの重みに記憶される際に経験記憶ストアから、学習イベントをトリガした生のセンサ入力（画像など）を再構築することが可能であってもよい。しかしながら、潜在的には、いくつかの異なる入力ベクトルが単一のニューロンの重みを修正することができるため、ニューラルネットワーク内の結果として生じる重みは、いくつかの入力インスタンスのブレンドであってもよい。記憶データベースは、個々の入力ベクトル及びそれらの構成要素入力フィールドを関連付けられた属性を有する別個のエントリとして明示的に記憶するため、記憶データベースは、個々の経験を正確に再構築する方法を提供する。
記憶を修正又は削除する
記憶は、例えば、記憶データベース内のエントリを修正することによって（オブジェクトの結合価を変更することなどの明示的な修正）、又はエントリ全体を削除することによって、ユーザによって選択的に修正することができる。全てのエントリを削除することによって、具現化されたエージェントの記憶全体を削除して、白紙状態を残すことができる。一実施形態では、各統合において、経験記憶ストアは、クリアされ、更新された記憶データベース（編集又は削除されたエントリを含むことができる）を使用して訓練することによって、完全に再入力される。ＳＯＭである経験記憶ストアでは、経験記憶ストアのクリアは、全てのニューロン重みをランダム化することによって達成することができる。
他の実施形態では、経験記憶ストア全体をクリアするのではなく、更新された又は修正された経験は、経験記憶ストアに配置されて、特定のデータポイントを「捨て去る」ことによって、選択的に削除されて、経験記憶ストアを形成することができる。「忘れる」モデルでは、経験は、タイムスタンプされ、又は他の方法で記憶の新しさを示すようにマークされ、古いイベントは、これらを経験記憶ストア及び／又は記憶データベースから削除することによって、「忘れられ」てもよい。
記憶をオーサリングする
エージェントが新しい経験をして新しい記憶を作成することを必要とする代わりに、経験に対応する記憶エントリを、エージェントの記憶に直接「埋め込む」ことができる。これにより、指示可能な、人工的に操作可能な具現化されたエージェントを作り出す。例えば、エージェントは、経験に対する指示された自律応答（特定の刺激に対する否定的な反応など）を有するようにプログラムすることができる。したがって、記憶データベース内のエントリは、外部ツールによって「オーサリング」することができ、並びに具現化されたエージェントのリアルタイムの感覚運動的経験で直接学習することができる。
テキストコーパスを使用してオーサリングする
記憶のオーサリングは、テキストコーパスを有するコンテキストで行うことができる。イベントの記憶をオーサリングするためのマークアップされたテキストコーパスの例は、以下のようである。［タイムスタンプ］赤い自動車（画像、音）は左（場所）に走っていった（アクション）。私はそれが好き＜ではなかった＞（感情）
リアルタイムの感覚運動的コンテキストは、具現化されたエージェントの単語選択（好き、好きではなかった）及び直示的かつ感情的状態を反映することができる。これは、単語などの記号に関連付けられている生入力（画像／音／感触など）のルックアップテーブルを提供することによって達成することができる。これにより、文を介してイベントを学習するための入力の迅速な作成が可能になる。ルックアップテーブル内の対応する単語に一致するデータは、経験記憶ストアを訓練し、かつ／又は記憶データベース内の生データに関連付けられた詳細なエントリを作成するために、取り出される。オブジェクト、アクション、及び感情に関する既存の知識を有する具現化されたエージェントでは、構文構造を使用してイベントの構成要素を関連付けることによって、イベントをオーサリングすることができる。
記憶は、個々の記憶を位置特定、修正、及び／又は削除するのを容易にする様式で分類、ラベル付け、又はタグ付けすることができる。ユーザが具現化されたエージェントの記憶を閲覧及び編集するのを容易にするために、ユーザインターフェースを提供することができる。
自己編成マップ（ＳＯＭ）を使用した実装形態
自己編成マップ
モダリティ及び収束発散ゾーンの両方は、Ｋｏｈｏｎｅｎマップとしても知られている、自己編成マップ（ＳＯＭ）、教師なし学習ベースの記憶構造を使用して表すことができる。このデータの離散化／量子化表現を提供するために、ＳＯＭ（１、２、若しくは３．．．又はｎ次元であってもよい）は、データセットに対して訓練される。次いで、この離散化／量子化を使用して、元のデータセットのコンテキスト内の新しいデータを分類することができる。
加重距離関数
従来のＳＯＭでは、入力ベクトルとニューロンの重みベクトルとの間の相違は、入力ベクトル全体にわたる単純な距離関数（例えば、ユークリッド距離又はコサイン類似）を使用して計算される。しかしながら、一部のアプリケーションでは、（異なる入力フィールドに対応する）入力ベクトルのいくつかの部分を他よりも高く重み付けすることが望ましい場合がある。
一実施形態では、マルチモーダル記憶のために結合自己編成マップ（ＡＳＯＭ）が提供され、入力ベクトルのサブセットに対応する各入力フィールドは、ＡＳＯＭアルファ重みと呼ばれる項によって加重距離関数に寄与する。ＡＳＯＭは、入力フィールドのセットとニューロンの重みベクトルとの間の差を、モノリシックなユークリッド距離としてではなく、最初に入力ベクトルを入力フィールド（入力ベクトルに記録された異なる属性に対応し得る）に分割することによって計算する。異なる入力フィールド内のベクトル成分の差は、異なるＡＳＯＭアルファ重みにより合計距離に寄与する。ＡＳＯＭの単一の結果として得られるアクティビティは、加重距離関数に基づいて計算され、入力ベクトルの異なる部分は、異なる意味（semantics）及びそれ自体のＡＳＯＭアルファ重み値を有することができる。したがって、ＡＳＯＭへの全体的な入力は、異なるモダリティ、他のＳＯＭのアクティビティ、又は他の何かなどの、いかなる入力が関連付けられることになるかも包含する。
図２は、いくつかのモダリティからの入力を統合するＡＳＯＭのアーキテクチャを示す。ＡＳＯＭへの入力
Figure 2022541883000002
は、Ｋ個の入力フィールド３２からなる。各入力フィールドは、ｉ＝１．．．Ｋについてのｄｉｍｋニューロンのベクトル
Figure 2022541883000003
である。入力フィールド３２は、感覚入力の直接１ホット符号化、１Ｄ確率分布、下位レベル自己編成マップのアクティビティの２Ｄマトリックス、又は任意の他の好適な表現であってもよい。
図２のＡＳＯＭ ３は、Ｎ個のニューロンからなり、全入力に対応する重みベクトル
Figure 2022541883000004
を有する各ニューロンｉ＝１．．．Ｎは、ｋ＝１．．．Ｋについての部分重みベクトル
Figure 2022541883000005
のＫ個の入力フィールドに分割される。入力
Figure 2022541883000006
が提供されると、各ＡＳＯＭニューロンは、最初に入力とニューロンの重みベクトルとの間の入力フィールドごとの距離を計算する。
Figure 2022541883000007
式中、αｋは、ｋ番目の入力フィールドのボトムアップ混合係数／ゲイン（ＡＳＯＭアルファ重み）である。ｄｉｓｔｋは、入力フィールド固有の距離関数である。任意の好適な距離関数（単数又は複数）が使用されてもよく、これには、以下が挙げられるが、これらに限定されない。ユークリッド距離、ＫＬ発散、コサインベースの距離。
一実施形態では、加重距離関数は、以下のようにユークリッド距離に基づく。
Figure 2022541883000008
式中、Ｋは、入力フィールドの数であり、αｉは、各入力フィールドの対応するＡＳＯＭアルファ重みであり、Ｄｉは、ｉ番目の入力フィールドの次元性であり、ｘｊ （ｉ）又はｗｊ （ｉ）は、それぞれｉ番目の入力フィールドのｊ番目の成分、又は対応するニューロン重みである。
いくつかの実施形態では、ＡＳＯＭアルファ重みは、正規化されてもよい。例えば、ユークリッド距離関数が使用される場合、アクティビティＡＳＯＭアルファ重みは、通常、合計が１になるようにされる。しかしながら、他の実施形態では、ＡＳＯＭアルファ重みは、正規化されていない。正規化しないことにより、多数の入力フィールド又は粗から密まで動的に変化する高次元ＡＳＯＭアルファ重みベクトルを有するＡＳＯＭなどの特定のアプリケーションにおいて、より安定な距離関数（例えば、ユークリッド距離）をもたらすことができる。
記憶をサンプリングする方法：夢想及びＩＯＲ
ＳＯＭに記憶されたアイテムをランダムに再構築することが望ましい場合がある。これは、例えば、長期記憶の統合中の擬似訓練アイテムの構築、又はモータバブリング中のモータ移動のランダムな生成において起こる。これらの場合、ＳＯＭの訓練記録は、再構築するＳＯＭニューロンの確率的選択を駆動する。サンプリングは、訓練された値の完全なセットからサンプリングするために、復帰抑制（inhibition-of-return、ＩＯＲ）プロセスと組み合わせることができる。
訓練記録
ＳＯＭの完全なアクティビティから再構築するとき、全てのニューロンは、これらのニューロンが意味のある仮説を表すように訓練されている、又は初期ランダムノイズを含むかに関係なく、入力ベクトルに対するそれらの重みベクトルの類似性に比例して寄与する。
よりクリーンな再構築された出力を提供するために、より多くの訓練を受けたニューロンにより多くの重みが与えられてもよい（訓練されていないニューロンを無視する）。各ニューロンの適応量は、ＳＯＭパラメータ「訓練記録」でアクセス可能な０～１の値として記録することができる。
訓練記録は、０に初期化され固定入力１に接続された、各ニューロンの追加のスカラー重みである。Ｈｅｃｅ、この特定のニューロンが訓練されるたびに、それが勝利者である又は勝利者の近傍にあるのいずれかであるため、ニューロンの訓練記録は、現在の（一致の良好さのために、潜在的に適応した）学習率に比例して増加する。これは、訓練の過程で、訓練記録は、１に向かって上昇することを意味する。
マップ内の全てのニューロンの訓練記録値の平均（「マップ占有率」）は、古いものを上書きすることなく新しい入力を学習するためのマップの自由容量を示す。１の「最大占有率」は、「完全な／混雑したマップ」（自由容量なし）を示し、０の「最大占有率」は、訓練されていないマップを意味する。
訓練記録は、ＳＯＭのアクティビティ計算においてアクティベーションマスクの値（項ｍｉ）として機能することができる。ベイズ項では、均一なｍｉ（全ての仮説が等しく確からしい状態の平坦な事前確率）を使用する代わりに、これは、観察の頻度に基づいて事前確率を採用することに等しい。すなわち、結果として得られる確率分布は、入力が、ＳＯＭを訓練した以前に見られた入力のうちの１つであるという仮定を条件としている。
訓練記録は、経時的に減衰することができ、これは、探索が最近の訓練の領域を回避するが、領域が長い間再アクティブ化されていない場合、それを新しい記憶のために再生利用することができることを意味する。訓練記録が訓練の履歴を記憶する方法は、パラメータ訓練記録減衰を介して調整可能である。１の訓練記録減衰値は、減衰がないことを意味する。１未満の訓練記録減衰値は、訓練記録が（０～１の値によって判定された新しさを有する）直近の訓練のみを反映することを意味する。
重みのトップダウン再構築によってコンテンツを検査する
下位レベルＳＯＭのアクティビティが上位レベルＳＯＭへの入力を提供する、接続されたＳＯＭの階層では、アクティベーションの流れは、トップダウン再構築中に反転させることができる。上位レベルＳＯＭからの再構築された入力は、下位のＳＯＭにトップダウン信号を提供する：予想されるアクティベーションのパターン。この信号は、下位ＳＯＭのトップダウンバイアスフィールドに供給することができる。それは、下位ＳＯＭがそれ自体の入力から導出するアクティベーションのパターンと組み合わせることができる。
ニューロンに記憶された「記憶」の生コンテンツは、取り出すことができ、記憶は、訓練状況及びまたＳＯＭパラメータに応じて、個々のイベントに等しくなり得る、又はいくつかのイベントのブレンドであり得る（例えば、小さなシグマ、大きな学習率＝「鋭い」個々の記憶、より大きなシグマ及びより小さい学習率は、一般化された記憶及びブレンドされた記憶をもたらす）。
高速学習のためにＡＳＯＭを構成する
逆伝搬ベースの学習方法は、小さな重み更新を介した遅い学習を必要とするが、ＳＯＭニューロン表現のローカリスト（localist）性質により、単一の露出であっても、それらが非常に急速に入力パターンを学習することが可能になる。従来のＳＯＭで（いくつかの提示のみの後に）入力を「高速」に学習することにより遭遇した問題は、以前に符号化された入力の上書きである。別個の訓練アイテム（又は少なくとも目的のために別個であると考えられる訓練アイテム、例えば、異なるクラスのメンバー）は、別々のニューロン又は領域にそれらを符号化することによって、ＳＯＭ内で分離されているべきである。同時に、互いに十分に類似しているアイテムは、同じニューロン又は領域に符号化されるべきである。ゆっくりと学習するＳＯＭを使用して関連付ける以前の試みとは異なり、本明細書に記載のＡＳＯＭは、「高速に」学習することができる。ＡＳＯＭは、所与の入力を単一の露出で単一のＳＯＭニューロン（又は領域）によって符号化することができるように、高い学習定数／学習頻度値を選択することによって、高速に学習するように設定することができる。しかしながら、アイテムの大きなセットの実用的な高速学習を可能にするためには、学習定数を変化させることは、十分ではない。
入力が「新しい」かどうかは、判定することができ、一致が十分に近くない場合、「勝利ニューロン」は、上書きされず、代わりに、異なるニューロンが選択される。ＡＳＯＭに提示されたアイテムが「新しい」又は「古い」と見なされるかどうかを制御する「最良一致閾値」パラメータを定義することができる。「最良一致閾値」は、入力アイテムに最も強く応答するＳＯＭニューロンの（生－非正規化）アクティビティ値に対する閾値である。この値が「最良一致閾値」を下回る場合、アイテムは、「新しい」と見なされ、そうでなければアイテムは、「古い」と見なされる。新しいアイテムは、ＳＯＭに別々のパターンとして記憶され、古いアイテムは、既存のパターンを更新する。
新しいアイテムに遭遇すると、「探索方法」パラメータは、どのニューロンを新しい入力を符号化するために割り当てるかを判定する。任意の好適な探索方法を使用することができる。例としては、以下が挙げられる。
・ 入力探索に対するノイズ：現在の入力にランダムノイズを追加し、この修正された入力までの距離に適用されるガウスアクティベーション関数に基づいて、新しい勝利者を見つける。
・ アクティベーション探索に対するノイズ：新しい勝利者は、元のアクティベーションマップとランダムノイズで満たされた二次マップとの混合物である、複合アクティベーションマップから選択される。二次マップの混合係数は、比較＿ノイズと呼ばれ、どれだけ元のマップが歪んでいるかを判定する。比較＿ノイズの小さい値は、元の勝利者の近傍の局所探索を引き起こす。
アクティビティをノイズと混合する代わりに、二次マップは、ＳＯＭの特定の領域に向かう又はそれから離れるバイアスを符号化する何でも、例えば、以前の勝利ニューロンが回避されていることを確実にし、かつＳＯＭをより均一に入力することを促進するために、各ニューロンが最近どのくらいの頻度及びどのくらいアクティブであったかを逆比例して反映する値に設定することができる。特に有用な方法は、各ニューロンが（合計で、又は最近）受けた訓練量、いわゆる訓練記録の経過を追うこと、及び（以前に訓練されていない／死んだニューロンに関与する）訓練された領域からの勝利者の選択をはじくことである。
マップの各ニューロン／領域の記録、それが受けた訓練の程度、及び勝利ニューロンのための競争は、依然として入力に対する類似性に依存するが、多くの訓練を受けた領域から離れてバイアスされる。ネットワークは、均一に入力され、（悪い初期重みのために決して訓練されなかった）「死んだニューロン」は、低減される。アクティベーションノイズとして訓練記録の逆数を使用することにより、未使用のニューロンがある場合、これらが最初に割り当てられることを確実にする。
ＳＯＭのトポグラフィ的編成を保持し、元の勝利者の近傍に新しい勝利者を配置するために、「比較＿ノイズ」を小さい値に設定することができる。比較ノイズが小さい場合、元のアクティベーションは、依然として強い影響を有し、したがって、新しい勝利者が古い勝利者の近傍から来る可能性が高い。次いで、それは、現在の入力で訓練され、元の勝利者は、それが以前に有するものを符号化し、新しい入力は、それを上書きするのではなく、むしろ近くのニューロンによって表される。
各ニューロンが最近どれくらいの頻度及びどれくらいアクティブであったかを逆比例して反映する値のマップにパターンを設定する（それにより、以前に未使用のニューロンに関与することにより、ＳＯＭにより均一に入力することを促進し、第１の勝利者が選択されないことを確実にする）ことは、ＳＯＭ同型ベクトルに対して以下のように擬似コードを使用して計算することができる。
Figure 2022541883000009
アイテムが「古い」と見なされる場合、それは、何らかの学習がすでに行われた領域内のＳＯＭに記憶される。標準的なＳＯＭでは、同じアイテムが繰り返し提示される場合、このニューロンを表す領域は、発達し、潜在的にサイズが成長して、最終的にＳＯＭ全体を支配し得る。これは、ＳＯＭの非効率的な使用である。この効果を制御するために、「最良一致学習乗数」パラメータは、勝利ニューロンのアクティビティに従って、ＳＯＭの学習頻度を調整する。「最良一致学習乗数」がゼロに設定される場合、正確に繰り返されるアイテムは、ＳＯＭ内に任意の新しい学習を誘発しない。それが１に設定される場合、元のＳＯＭの学習頻度の調整はない。学習頻度に対する乗数Ｍは、次のものなどの式を使用して計算することができる。Ｍ＝１－生の勝利者アクティビティ＊（１－最良一致学習乗数）。完全な一致の近傍のより多くのニューロンがその値に向かって適合することができ、かつ再構築された「ソフト」出力はまた、どのくらいの頻度で異なる値に遭遇したかの頻度も反映するため、完全な一致の場合であっても何らかの訓練が良好であるため、０ではなく、最良一致学習乗数の低い非ゼロ値が望ましい場合がある。
前述のように、高速学習ＳＯＭで遭遇する問題は、大きな学習頻度がニューロンを上書きするリスクを増加させることである。小さな学習頻度では、重みは、完全に上書きされないが、平均化されている。そのパラメータの値に応じて、ＳＯＭは、遅い学習又は高速学習のために構成することができる。遅い学習（標準的なＫｏｈｏｎｅｎ ＳＯＭによって説明したような、かつ脳内の皮質学習に類似している、個々の記憶を一般化／ブレンドすることができる）は、より小さい学習頻度、近傍サイズシグマのより高い値、例えば、最良＿一致＿閾値＝０を設定することによって無効化された新規性検出によって特徴付けられる。高速学習は、最大学習頻度、非常に小さなシグマ、高く設定された最良＿一致＿閾値によって特徴付けられ、脳内の海馬学習に類似しており、（個々の経験を別々に／直交して、かつ正確に表す高い程度を有する）確率的ルックアップテーブルのように挙動することができる。上記のパラメータの範囲が連続的であるため、高速学習と遅い学習の混合物がＳＯＭで達成可能である。ＳＯＭが混雑している（そのマップ占有率の観点で、訓練記録のセクションで説明したように）ときに学習頻度を適応的に低下させることが可能である。次いで、ＳＯＭは、標準的な遅い学習のＳＯＭに自動的に切り替わる（完全マップにおいて高速に学習し続けることは、古い知識を上書きする／忘れることを意味するため）。学習頻度を低減すると、新しい記憶は、最も類似した古いものとブレンドされる。一実施形態では、学習の「速度」は、ＳＯＭ容量に依存する。十分な容量を有するＳＯＭでは、ＳＯＭは、個々の記憶に対して高速（１ショットでも）かつ大きな精度で学習するように構成することができる。より漸進的な学習への遷移は、ＳＯＭがその全容量に近づく（古い記憶を新しいものと完全に置き換えるのではなく、むしろそれらをブレンドするように）際に生じ得る。どれくらいの容量（すなわち、古い記憶を上書きすることなく訓練することができる未使用のニューロン）が残っているかを監視するために、ニューロン当たりの訓練記録の平均値、すなわち、合計＿ｉ（訓練記録［ｉ］）／マップ＿サイズとして、マップ占有率を定義することができる。値０は、空／訓練されていないマップを意味し、値１は、完全なマップを意味する。速いマップタイプから遅いマップタイプに遷移するために、パラメータ学習頻度、シグマ、及び最良一致閾値は、マップ占有率の増加と共に徐々に適合させることができる。代替的に、別個の切り替えを、マップ占有率が特定の閾値、例えば９０％（０．９）を上回ると行うことができる。
的を絞った忘却
ＳＯＭによって学習された全てを「忘れること」は、全てのニューロン重みベクトルをランダムノイズに置き換えること（ＳＯＭが初期化されるのと同じ方法）によって、達成可能である。しかしながら、「的を絞った忘却」が有用である状況が存在する。例えば、
・誤って学習した、直近に学習した経験を「元に戻す」こと。
・特定の種類の全ての記憶、すなわち、発砲の音に関連付けられた全ての画像を忘れること。
・まれにしかない記憶を忘れること（それらが偶然に起こり、かつ繰り返し遭遇する経験ほど良好な品質ではないものと仮定して）。
・非常に古い記憶を忘れること（開始時に訓練が不安定であり、かつそのときからの表現が低い品質のものであると推定して）。
的を絞った忘却は、「リセットマスク」と呼ばれる（アクティベーションマスクに類似した）マスクによって制御される。リセットマスクは、ＳＯＭと同型である（すなわち、各ＳＯＭニューロンに対して１つのマスク値を有する）。ニューロンの重みベクトルをノイズに置き換える場合、リセットマスク＝１であるニューロンのみがリセットされ、他のもの（リセットマスク＝０である）は、保持される。
あるいは、リセットマスク値は、０～１であってもよく、その場合、元の重みベクトルは、リセットマスク値によって判定された混合係数でランダムノイズと混合される。
新しい＿重み［ｉ］＝（１－リセット＿マスク［ｉ］）＊元の＿重み［ｉ］＋リセット＿マスク［ｉ］＊ノイズ
リセット中、リセットされたニューロンの訓練記録がクリアされるように、訓練記録を更新することができる（すなわち、離散的なリセットマスクの場合、リセットマスク＝１のニューロンに対して訓練記録：＝０）。連続混合（記憶をぼかす）の場合、
新しい＿訓練＿記録［ｉ］）＝（１－リセット＿マスク［ｉ］）＊元の＿訓練＿記録［ｉ］）
適切なリセットマスクは、以下の要件に従って設定することができる。
リセットマスクは、ＳＯＭの直近のアクティベーションマップ（元に戻したい経験に対して訓練された直後のＳＯＭ全体のアクティビティ）に設定される。これにより、部分的な忘却－アクティビティのサイズに比例したぼかしを引き起こす。代替的に、離散的なリセットマスクは、例えば、確率的ＳＯＭに対して、アクティベーションがリセット閾値よりも大きい全てのニューロンについて、リセットマスクを１に設定し、残りの部分について、０に設定して、作成されてもよい。又は、非確率的ＳＯＭでは、勝利ニューロンについてマスク値を１に設定し、全ての他のニューロンについて、０に設定する。
関連付けられた記憶が忘れられる刺激が入力される。上記の例では、発砲がオーディオ入力フィールド上に提供され、ビデオのＡＳＯＭアルファ重みは、０に設定される（発砲に関連付けられた全てのビデオを取り出すために）。結果として得られたアクティベーションマップは、リセットマスクとして直接使用することができる。代替的に、離散的なリセットマスクは、例えば、アクティベーションが設定閾値よりも大きい全てのニューロンについて、リセットマスクを１に設定し、残りの部分について、０に設定して、作成されてもよい。又は、勝利ニューロンについて１に設定し、全ての他のニューロンについて、０に設定する。リセットマスクは、１－訓練記録に設定される、又はその離散化されたバージョンに設定される（訓練記録［ｉ］＜閾値の場合、リセットマスク［ｉ］＝１、そうでなければ０）。訓練記録減衰は、訓練中に値＜１に設定される。これにより、新しい訓練によって「リフレッシュ」されていないニューロンについて訓練記録を経時的にゼロに摩滅させる。次いで、リセットマスクは、１－訓練記録に設定される、又はその離散化されたバージョンに設定される（訓練記録［ｉ］＜リセット閾値の場合、リセットマスク［ｉ］＝１、そうでなければ０）。
ＡＳＯＭ可視化
ＳＯＭは、多次元データを可視化するためのツールとして使用することができる。図７は、５つの入力フィールドを関連付けるＡＳＯＭのＡＳＯＭ訓練の表示を示す（数字ビットマップ、偶数、５未満、３の倍数、色）。可視化は、訓練中のＡＳＯＭ重みの編成、及びクエリを満たすデータがクエリに対して表される場所を表示するように、どのようにＡＳＯＭをクエリすることができるかを示す。訓練データが指定され、各データは、数字、続いて、数字が偶数、５未満、及び３の倍数（この順序で）、並びに（任意の）色であるかどうかを指定する（バイナリ）フラグを含む。ＡＳＯＭは、任意の好適な様式でデータに対して訓練される。近傍サイズ及び学習率は、徐々にアニールすることができる。
図７は、入力パターン（数字自体が２０×２０のビットマップで表される）、再構築された出力パターン、ネットワークが重みに対して可塑性／訓練された、かつ静的ビューである場合を示すフラグを示す。ＡＳＯＭは、５つの入力フィールド（数字ビットマップ、偶数、５未満、３の倍数、色）を関連付けるため、重みマトリックスは、入力フィールド重みマトリックスに分解される。バイナリ情報が表される場合、色の白色は、ゼロ／偽を表し、黒色は、１／真を表す。ビットマップ及び色マップが表される場合、色は、それらの自然な意味を表す。
ＡＳＯＭが訓練されると、クエリを編成して、マップ上のどの場所がクエリを最も良く満たす領域であるかを動的に見ることが可能である。クエリビューは、図８に示すように、動的クエリビューア入力フィールドの列に表示される。各クエリは、他のものとは無関係であり、図９のスクリーンショットに示されるように、それぞれのタブ上のスライダを使用して操作することができる。クエリは、並んで表示され、その結果、ユーザは、異なるクエリに対応する領域を視覚的に比較することができる。
クエリを作成するために、ユーザ又は自動システムは、（例えば、図９に示されるように）１つ以上のクエリパターンを指定することができる。定義されたパターンの各々に対する影響の強度もまた、指定することができる（各入力フィールドに対してアルファ／入力フィールド重みとして）。強度は、バイナリ（０又は１）であってもよく、又は連続／ファジー混合クエリをサポートすることができる。
それぞれのビューのマップは、クエリに最も良く対応するＡＳＯＭの領域を示すことができ、出力は、クエリを最も良く近似する再構築されたデータを示す。パターンを組み合わせることによって、「５未満の偶数の３の倍数は何か」、又は「どの数字が青色の陰影であるか」などの質問をすることが可能である。
一致の厳密性、換言すれば、ＡＳＯＭのアクティベーション感度を増加する、又は減少させることが可能である（図９の一致厳密性変数に示されるように）。この実施例では、マップが完全に白色である、又は出力ビットマップが完全に黒色である場合、一致の厳密性を減少させることが望ましい場合があり、マップが暗すぎる、又はビットマップがぼけすぎている場合は、厳密性を増加することが望ましい場合がある。
各ビューは、マスターＡＳＯＭの２つのコピーを有し、１つは、そのアクティビティを可視化するためのものであり、他方は、出力を再構築するためのものである。アクティビティの重み付けされた組み合わせとして出力を計算するＡＳＯＭは、合計が１になるように正規化されたアクティビティを必要とし、一方、ＡＳＯＭを示すアクティビティマップは、各ニューロンの重みがクエリを満たす実際の程度を見るために、正規化なしの生のアクティビティを示すべきである。
ＡＳＯＭの例としては、ＶＡＴ（視覚／オーディオ／タッチ）、ＶＭ（視覚／モータ）、ＶＮＣ（視覚／ＮＣ）、ＶＡＴアクティビティＬ（ＶＡＴ／位置）、ＨＣ又はアクション結果（Ｖ１／Ｖ２／Ｍ／Ｌ１／Ｌ２／ＮＣ）が挙げられる。
クロスモーダルオブジェクト表現ＳＯＭ
クロスモーダルオブジェクト表現は、オブジェクトの異なる感覚モダリティを関連付けるＳＯＭで学習することができる。一実施形態では、視覚、オーディオ、及びタッチ入力を関連付け、オブジェクトタイプのモダリティ統合表現を学習するクロスモーダルオブジェクト表現ＳＯＭとして機能する。それは、オブジェクトタイプのユニモーダル表現を学習する３つのＳＯＭ、視覚オブジェクトタイプＳＯＭ、聴覚オブジェクトタイプＳＯＭ、及び触覚オブジェクトタイプＳＯＭから入力を取る。信号検出プロセスは、ＣＤＺ ＳＯＭの各入力フィールドに、そのフィールドにおける信号の開始を探し、開始が発生するとそのフィールドの適格性トレースをトリガする、関連付けられた信号検出プロセスを提供することによって、実装することができる。クロスモーダルオブジェクト表現ＳＯＭの場合、これらの信号は、３つの別個のモダリティの注意システムから来ることができる。クロスモーダルオブジェクト表現ＳＯＭ及びその入力ＳＯＭにおける学習は、３つの別個のモダリティの注意システムによって検出される下位レベルイベントによって駆動される。例えば、聴覚刺激に対するイベントは、特定の閾値よりも大きな音であってもよい。
学習はまた、適格性トレースを使用して実施されるように、これらの異なる信号間の何らかの調和を必要とする。適格性トレース（漏れのある統合及び発射ニューロンによって符号化される）は、イベントが検出されると、各モダリティで開始される。２つのモダリティのトレースが同時にアクティブである場合、学習は、これらのモダリティに対するタイプのＳＯＭで行われ、またクロスモーダルオブジェクト表現ＳＯＭでも行われる。
１つのモダリティだけでイベントが検出された場合、異なるモードの接続性がトリガされる。イベントを登録するモダリティでアクティブ化されたパターンは、モダリティ非依存オブジェクト表現をアクティブ化するクロスモーダルオブジェクト表現ＳＯＭに入力として渡される。次いで、この表現を使用して、他のユニモーダルタイプＳＯＭの表現を再構築し、その結果、欠落したモダリティのパターンがトップダウンで推測される。
このモデルでは、クロスモーダルオブジェクトタイプＳＯＭは、単一のモダリティでの刺激及び複数のモダリティでの刺激の両方によってアクティブ化される（それらが調和するという条件で）。
情動オブジェクト関連付けＳＯＭ
感情的状態は、入力刺激に関連付けることができる。例えば、オブジェクトを提示すると同時に、大きな、突然の、かつ／又は恐ろしいノイズをペアリングすることにより、具体化されたエージェントにおける感情的な条件付けを引き起こすことができる。オブジェクトに次に遭遇すると、それは、恐怖反応を誘発するであろう。そのような関連付けは、情動オブジェクト関連付けＡＳＯＭと呼ばれる収束ゾーン（ＣＤＺ）ＡＳＯＭで学習される。一実施形態では、これは、視覚モダリティを神経化学モダリティと関連付けるＡＳＯＭ（ＶＮＣ ＳＯＭ）によって達成される。このＡＳＯＭは、視覚オブジェクトタイプＳＯＭ、及びエージェントの感情的状態を保持する神経化学ＳＯＭから入力を取る。
情動オブジェクト関連付けＡＳＯＭの各入力フィールドは、そのフィールドにおける信号の開始を探し、開始が発生するとそのフィールドの適格性トレースをトリガする、関連付けられた信号検出プロセスを有する。オブジェクトタイプＳＯＭの適格性をトリガする信号は、例えば、視野内の有意な移動によってトリガすることができる、顕著性マップにおける新しい顕著な領域の選択である。感情的状態媒体の適格性をトリガするイベントは、感情的状態ベクトルに関連付けられた、このベクトルの突然の変化をシグナリングする「相」信号から計算される。
開始依存学習の原理により、ＳＯＭは、これらのフィールドの適格性トレースがそれらのそれぞれの閾値を上回って同時にアクティブである場合、その入力フィールド内の表現間の関連付けを学習することのみが可能である。この場合、この原理は、新たに顕著なオブジェクトが、所与の感情の突然の開始と時間的に同時発生すると知覚されるときに、感情的な関連付けが学習されることを確実にする。タイプＯの所与のオブジェクトとの感情的関連付けを学習した後に、新たに顕著なオブジェクトとしてのＯの提示は、関連付けられた感情を自動的にアクティブ化する。これは、欠落した入力の再構築の原理によって起こる。
オペラント学習
オペラント条件付けは、所与のコンテキストにおけるエージェントによって生成されたモータアクションが、アクションが実行されたしばらく後に到着する報酬刺激に関連付けられるプロセスである。これらの関連付けを学習する回路は、具現化されたエージェント内で常に稼働して、所与のコンテキストにおける報酬をもたらすアクションを示唆することができる。アクション結果ＡＳＯＭは、以前の収束ゾーン上に階層的に構築する収束ゾーンである。アクション結果ＡＳＯＭは、何らかの所与の時間に生じる知覚コンテキスト刺激（位置Ｌ１に現れる視覚オブジェクトタイプＴ１）、少し後に実行されるモータアクション、及びそのいくらか後に発生する報酬刺激の間の関連付けを学習する。報酬刺激は、別の位置Ｌ２に現れる別のタイプＴ２のオブジェクトに関連付けられる。アクション結果ＳＯＭは、知覚コンテキスト刺激の表現を記憶する必要がある。なぜなら、これが報酬刺激が現れる時間までに消失しているためである。アクション結果ＳＯＭへのＴ１及びＬ１の入力は、オブジェクトタイプＳＯＭで引き起こされる以前のオブジェクトタイプのコピー、及び顕著性マップで選択された以前の位置を保持する。Ｔ２及びＬ２の入力は、現在選択されている顕著性位置、及び現在アクティブなオブジェクトタイプである。したがって、アクション結果ＳＯＭは、記憶に留められたオブジェクトと現在知覚されているオブジェクトとの間の関連付けを学習する。適格性ウィンドウは、異なる時間に発生する関連付けられたイベントに対応するように調整することができる。
再構築記憶に基づく挙動
全ての具現化されたエージェントの挙動は、記憶を再構築することによって影響を受けることがある。具体化されたエージェント又はアバターを生成して生きているように動かすための神経行動学的モデリングフレームワークの使用は、また本発明の譲受人に譲渡され、参照により本明細書に組み込まれる、米国特許第１０１８１２１３（Ｂ２）号に開示されている。米国特許第１０１８１２１３（Ｂ２）号に記載されているものなどの神経行動学的モデル内で、異なるモダリティからの入力の再構築は、具現化されたエージェントの内部状態を変化させ、したがって、エージェントの挙動を修正することができる。
情動記憶をオーサリングすることにより、具現化されたエージェントにおける感情表出の自律的なトリガを可能にする。顧客サービスアバターでは、経験記憶ストアを使用して、アバター内の反応を効率的にプログラムすることができる。例えば、ブランドロイヤルティ顧客サービスアバターは、視覚的及び言葉の商標の両方を含む、ブランドに関連付けられた全ての商標に対する肯定的な情動反応を有するようにプログラムすることができる。例えば、ブランド名「Ｓｏｕｌ Ｍａｃｈｉｎｅｓ」を聞くことは、それに応じてエージェントの神経化学状態を変化させる、感覚「幸福な」に関連付けることができる。その言葉を聞くと、幸福の神経化学状態が予測され、アバターを微笑むように駆動する。
一実施形態では、経験又はイベントに対する直接反応は、オーサリング可能な記憶を介してエージェントに「埋め込む」ことができる。例えば、ブランド「Ｓｏｕｌ Ｍａｃｈｉｎｅｓ」を注意を払う／警戒、眼を見開くことの状態、すなわち、視覚モダリティが継続的に適格である状態に関連付ける記憶、及びＡＳＯＭを介して視覚モダリティに間接的に関連付けられた他のモダリティは、予測を生成するためにトップダウンで入力を受信する。
玩具用途では、アバター又は仮想文字などの具現化されたエージェントは、挙動を呈するようにユーザによってプログラムすることができる。例えば、仮想の友人と遊んでいる子供は、経験によって（仮想の友人の前にオブジェクトを提示し、否定的な顔の表情及び／又は言葉を生成する）、又はインターフェースを介して、特定のオブジェクトが不快であるという記憶を仮想の友人に「埋め込む」ことができる。
具現化されたエージェントの個性又は性格は、具現化されたエージェントの好み及び嫌悪を含む、記憶をオーサリングすることによって、オーサリングすることができる。オブジェクト及び／又はイベントに関連付けられた感情的状態をオーサリングすることによって、特定の個性を有するエージェントを開発することが容易である。いくつかのオブジェクトを提示して、感情的状態に関連付けることができる。例えば、アバターは、各々が「幸福な」感情に関連付けられたいくつかの異なる動物のファイルベースの記憶をオーサリングすることによって、動物愛好家の個性を有するようにプログラムすることができる。同様に、オブジェクトは、怒り、悲しみ、又は中立の感情に関連付けることができる。
モータプラン
モータ記憶システムは、エージェントが対応するモータアクション（単数又は複数）を実行するようにアクティブ化することができる、モータアクション及び／又はモータプランを個々に記憶するように提供することができる。モータアクションの例としては、押すこと、引きずること、及び引っ張ることが挙げられるが、これらに限定されない。各アクションは、特定の時空間パターン、例えば、アクションを表す場合の固有受容性関節位置のシーケンス、又は観察されたアクションの場合の視覚的に認識された関節位置のシーケンスによって特徴付けられる。時間次元は、回帰投影によって暗黙的に表すことができ、ＡＳＯＭは、以前の計算時間ステップにおいて、現在の入力をそれ自体のアクティビティに関連付ける。
具現化されたエージェントは、具体化されたエージェントが手足又は他のエフェクタなどの身体部分を意図的に移動させることを可能にする、モータ制御システムを有することができる。各関節の角度に関する情報は、エージェントの身体の骨格モデルから送達することができる。エージェントは、視覚空間内の指定された点に到達するための手－眼協調能力を有することができる。自己編成マップモデル（ＡＳＯＭ）は、エージェントが現実的な眼の移動及び到達運動によって変化する周囲の３Ｄ仮想（又は、ＶＲ／ＡＲの場合、現実）空間と相互作用することができるように、エージェントが手－眼協調を学習することを可能にすることができる。訓練されると、ＡＳＯＭは、目標位置を提示される場合、逆運動学及び戻り関節角度に使用することができる。
モータアクションは、個々のモータ移動（例えば、オブジェクトにタッチするために空間内の点に到達すること）、又は連続的な移動であってもよい。例えば、エージェントの手（又は他のエフェクタ）が異なる軌道及び／又は速度に沿って目標オブジェクトに移動するため、把持、平手打ち、及びパンチングなどのオブジェクトに向けられたモータアクションは、連続的な移動である。例えば、平手打ち及びパンチングのモータアクションの場合、軌道は、到達するためよりも速く、軌道はまた、手を引き戻すことを伴うことができる。手の指の軌道も説明することができる。把持は、手の指を開き、次いでそれらを閉じることを伴う。パンチング及び平手打ちは、オブジェクトと接触する前に手を特定の形状に構成することを伴う。
複数のモータアクションはそれぞれ、目標に関連付けられ、モータプランを作成するように順序付けることができる。プランを作成するためのシステムは、また本出願人によって所有され、参照により本明細書に組み込まれる、「ＳＹＳＴＥＭ ＦＯＲ ＳＥＱＵＥＮＣＩＮＧ ＡＮＤ ＰＬＡＮＮＩＮＧ」と題された仮特許出願第ＮＺ７５２９０１号に記載されている。
モータアクション及び／又はモータプランは、エピソード（ＷＭアクションとして）、オブジェクト（オブジェクトのアフォーダンスとして）、又は任意の他の経験若しくはモダリティに関連付けることができる。モータアクション及び／又はモータプランは、経験記憶ストア及び／若しくは記憶データベース並びに／又は作業記憶内の、モータアクション及び／又はモータプランを識別するラベル又は他の記号に関連付けることができる。モータプランの例としては、キーボードで曲を演奏すること、タッチスクリーン上に画像を描くこと、ドアを開けることが挙げられる。
モータプランは、ユーザインターフェースイベントに関連付けられてもよく、参照により本明細書に組み込まれる、「Ｍａｃｈｉｎｅ Ｉｎｔｅｒａｃｔｉｏｎ」と題されたニュージーランド仮特許出願第ＮＺ７４４４１０号に記載されているように、エージェントが相互作用しているアプリケーション又はコンピュータシステム上のイベントをトリガすることができる。例えば、目標に２回タッチすることは、ユーザインターフェース上で「ダブルクリック」することに変換することができる（その場合、「ボタン」に２回タッチするモータアクションは、ユーザインターフェース上のボタンのダブルクリックをトリガする）。
記憶を知覚して保持する
イベント駆動認知は、どのイベントが知覚される（したがって、具現化されたエージェントの他のサブシステムに通信される）かに関し、生物学的に現実的な強化スキームは、どのイベントが保持されるかを管理する。
記憶は、イベントから構築されるが、人間は、予想とは異なるものをより強く覚えている。この原理を具現化されたエージェントに適用することにより、感覚入力によって常にトリガされるのではなく、イベントによって具現化されたエージェントを駆動することが可能になる。これは、エージェントが「イベント」に反応するために必要な計算を低減する時間圧縮の形態である。イベントに関連する時間のスナップショットは、重要性、閾値を上回る音量、移動、新規性、コンテキスト情報、又は任意の他の好適なメトリックに基づいて保持することができる。イベントは、モダリティが学習に適格である適格性ウィンドウを作成するモダリティで適格性トレースをトリガすることによって、記憶貯蔵に寄与する。
適格性に基づく学習を使用して、どの「イベント」をエージェントが保持するかを判定することができる。イベントの発生は、モダリティの適格性トレース１９をトリガする。各入力チャネルは、それ自体の適格性トレースを有する。例えば、ボトムアップイベント（例えば、十分に大きな音）が存在する場合、「音」のための入力チャネルは、適格性ウィンドウ中に開いており、しばらく後に閉じる。入力タイプ（モダリティ）は、固有の適格性ニューロンに関連付けることができる。イベントがその対応する入力チャネルに発生した場合、ニューロンは、入力を受信する。入力チャネルは、ニューロンの電圧が閾値を上回る持続期間にわたって適格である。
漏れのある積分器（Leaky Integrator、ＬＩ）ニューロンは、適格性に基づく学習を容易にするために、適格性トレースを実装することができる。ＬＩニューロンのアクティビティは、特定のレベルで開始され、経時的に減衰する。所与のＬＩニューロンのアクティビティが特定の閾値を上回っている間に、「適格性のウィンドウ」が定義される。この期間中、何らかの関連付けられた回路は、学習に適格である。図４は、どのようにモダリティの適格性トレース１９がイベントトリガと漏れのある積分器ニューロンの電圧閾値との間に適格性ウィンドウ１８を作成するかを示す。
また本発明の譲受人に譲渡された米国特許第１０１８１２１３（Ｂ２）号に記載されているものなどの神経行動学的モデルでは、適格性トレースは、個々のシナプスではなく、ネットワーク全体に対して動作することができる。各下位レベル入力の適格性トレース及び適格性ウィンドウを作成することに伴うステップは、米国特許第１０１８１２１３（Ｂ２）号に記載のプログラミング環境の「コネクタ」において実行することができる。
適格性ウィンドウをＣＤＺ内で使用して、どのように及びいつ学習が起こるかを制御し、どのようにアクティビティが収束ゾーンのシステムを介して拡散するかを制御することができる。例えば、２つの入力フィールドを有するＳＯＭによって実装される単純な知覚収束ゾーンでは、各入力フィールドは、そのフィールドにおける信号の開始を探し、開始が発生するとそのフィールドの適格性トレースをトリガする、関連付けられた信号検出プロセスを有する。ＳＯＭにおける学習及びアクティビティは、ここで、全ての収束ゾーンＳＯＭにわたって動作する、いくつかの一般的な原理によって制御される。
収束ゾーンＳＯＭの各入力フィールドの適格性ウィンドウは、コンテキストパラメータに基づいて調整することができる。例えば、エージェントの感情的状態の特定のパラメータは、特定のウィンドウを伸長又は短縮させることができる。したがって、フラストレーションは、特定のウィンドウをより短くすることができ、リラクセーションは、それをより長くすることができる。
知覚信号又はモータ信号から直接入力を取るＣＤＺ ＳＯＭの場合、その入力フィールドに関連付けられた信号検出プロセスは、感覚又はモータ刺激の開始を捕捉する。ＣＤＺ ＳＯＭが別のＣＤＺ ＳＯＭからその入力を取る場合、信号検出プロセスは、下位ＣＤＺ ＳＯＭにおけるクリア信号の開始を識別することができる。これは、それが何か新しいものを表していることをシグナリングする、下位ＳＯＭのアクティビティパターンの変化の尺度で読み取ることができる。この変化尺度は、下位ＳＯＭのエントロピーの尺度と組み合わせることができる。ＳＯＭパターンが確率分布として解釈可能である場合、そのエントロピーは、測定することができる。変化は、ＳＯＭがその入力パターンを確信的に表していることを伝達する、低エントロピー状態をもたらす必要がある。下位ＳＯＭがゆっくりと学習するように構成されている場合、下位ＳＯＭのそれ自体の入力の符号化が十分にクリアになるまで、上位ＳＯＭは、学習しない。
アクティビティは、「トップダウンアクティベーション」フィールドを介して上位ＣＤＺ ＳＯＭから下位ＣＤＺ ＳＯＭまでトップダウンで流れることができる。下位レベルＳＯＭの適格性が高い場合、そのアクティビティは、上位結合ＳＯＭをアクティブ化し、上位結合ＳＯＭは、次いで、リアルタイムで他の接続された下位レベルＳＯＭにトップダウン信号を提供する。これらは、これらの入力を計算するボトムアッププロセスのためのリアルタイムのトップダウンガイドとして機能することができる。
タイミング媒介適格性ベースの学習では、これらのネットワーク内で関連付けが学習されるために、関連付けられたネットワーク内の２つの入力は、互いに特定の時間内に発生しなければならない。いくつかのＡＳＯＭは、これらのフィールドの適格性トレースが同時にアクティブである（それらのそれぞれの閾値を上回る）場合、それらの入力フィールド内の表現間の関連付けを学習することが可能になるだけであり得る。これにより、新しい信号が同時に又はある程度の時間的調和で到着したときにのみ学習が起こり、ランダムな信号又はノイズの多い信号間の関連付けの学習を防止することが確実になる。したがって、学習は、同時に起こる適格性ウィンドウを必要とする。例えば、視覚刺激と触覚刺激との間の関連付けを学習するために、視覚的及び触覚的表現のための同時に起こる適格性ウィンドウが存在しなければならない。これらの同時に起こる適格性ウィンドウは、異なる下位レベルマルチモーダル「イベント」の同時発生をモデル化する。図３は、異なるモダリティの適格性信号を示す。図５は、学習イベントのフラグ及びフェーズを示す。学習イベントは、２つの同時イベント（０及び１）によってトリガされる。イベントが発生している間、エージェントは、例えば、オーディオシーケンスが終了するのをサッカードする又は待機することによって、より多くの情報を取得することができる。この遅延は、漏れのある積分器ニューロンを使用して実装することができる。漏れのあるニューロンの入力周波数定数及び／又は膜周波数定数を変更して、遅延の長さを変更することができる。示されている全ての期間は、別個の漏れのあるニューロンによって制御される。イベントの終了時に、「一次」ＳＯＭでは２及び３で、並びに二次ＳＯＭでは４で、可塑性が存在する。階層にＣＤＺの複数の層が存在する場合、これは、一般的な学習イベントシーケンスであり、それに応じて階層を収容するために、学習フェーズを拡張することができる。
適格性トレースが１つの入力フィールドのみに対してアクティブである場合、ＳＯＭは、そのアクティビティがこのフィールドによってのみ駆動されるモードに置かれる。（すなわち、他の入力フィールド（単数又は複数）のＡＳＯＭアルファ重みは、ゼロに設定される）。次いで、他の入力フィールド内のアクティビティは、「重みのトップダウン再構築によってコンテンツを検査する」で説明したように、アクティブなＳＯＭパターンから再構築される。再構築された値は、欠落した入力フィールドが下位レベルの分類プロセスによって送達される場合、有用なトップダウンバイアスを提供する。再構築はまた、知覚「充填」の単純なモデルを提供し、それによって、欠落した関連付けられた情報が想像される。第１のフィールドの適格性トレースが依然としてアクティブである間に、再構築された（又は予測された）入力がボトムアップで到着することが可能である。この場合、ＳＯＭは、いくらかより多い学習を行い、予測を行うために使用される関連付けを強化する。一方、第１のフィールドの適格性トレースが依然としてアクティブである間に、予測されていない信号が第２のフィールドに到着する場合、新しい関連付けがＳＯＭで学習される。
一実施形態では、時間依存性ドーパミン可塑性モデルが実装されて、具現化されたエージェントによって観察される、どの（及びどの程度の）イベントが学習／保持されるかを判定する。行われる学習の量、すなわち、関連するシステムの「可塑性」は、いくつかの要因によって影響を受ける。関連する適格性信号（単数又は複数）のレベルは、１つの要因である。別の重要な要因は、同時に起こる「報酬」信号の強度である。報酬信号は、神経伝達物質レベル、具体的には、ドーパミンレベルとして実装することができる。ＡＳＯＭ、確率的ＳＯＭ、及びそれらの混合物などのマップは、いつＡＳＯＭの重みが更新されるかを判定する可塑性変数に関連付けることができる。過剰訓練を防止するために、可塑性は、別個の瞬間又は時間間隔で（例えば、新しい入力が到着すると）動的にオンにし、次いでオフにすることができる。ニューロンが過剰学習することを防止するために、重みを更新する前に、入力と勝利ニューロンとの間に良好な一致がある場合、学習頻度定数を減少させることができる。
記憶統合
経験記憶ストアは、２つの独立し、かつ競合するＳＯＭ、短期記憶（short-term memory、ＳＴＭ）及び長期記憶（long-term memory、ＬＴＭ）を含むことができる。ＳＴＭは、迅速なオンライン／高速学習のために構成することができ、これは、高ＬＦＣ及びデータの不十分なトポグラフィ配置での１ショット学習スタイルで訓練することができる。ＳＴＭは、更に統合された学習のためのａａ緩衝システムとして機能することができる。ＳＴＭの記憶は、各統合後に消去することができる。ＬＴＭは、低く、かつ時間減衰する学習頻度定数での遅いオフライン学習のために構成することができ、良好なトポグラフィグループ化をもたらす。ＬＴＭは、記憶統合（これは、「睡眠」としてアバターで発現することができる）中に訓練される。ＳＴＭからの訓練データは、ＬＴＭ ＳＯＭにシミュレート又は再生することができる。統合中、ＳＴＭは、訓練されたユニットをランダムな又は系統的な様式でアクティブ化して、オブジェクトタイプ及び画像を再現し、これをＬＴＭの訓練データとして提供することができる。ＬＴＭは、再現されたデータペア又はタプルに対して訓練し、それ自身の訓練データを用いて新しいデータに対して訓練をインターリーブすることができる。代替的に、ＳＴＭ ＳＯＭを使用してオブジェクトを再現する代わりに、記憶データベース内のエントリからの生データファイルを提供して、ＬＴＭを訓練することができる。
例えば、ＬＴＭ及びＳＴＭオブジェクト分類器は、視覚認識のために一定の競合にあってもよい。ＬＴＭ及びＳＴＭオブジェクト分類器の両方は、視覚空間の表現（例えば、画素）をオブジェクトタイプの共通の１ホット符号化にマッピングすることができる。ＬＴＭにおいて十分に良好な一致がない場合、システムは、ＳＴＭにおける一致を仮定する。ＬＴＭ一致は、そのエントロピーが閾値を下回り、かつ勝利者アクティビティが閾値を上回る場合に、満たされる。したがって、ＳＴＭ及びＳＴＭ分類器は、オブジェクトタイプを集合的かつ選言的に表す（ＳＴＭは、最後の統合からのオブジェクトタイプを表し、ＬＴＭは、最後の統合前に学習されたオブジェクトタイプを表す）。新しいオブジェクトに遭遇すると、最初に、オブジェクトが存在するかどうかについて、ＬＴＭをチェックすることができる。オブジェクトが存在しない場合、オブジェクトは、ＳＴＭで学習される。
図１０は、ＬＴＭ及びＳＴＭの表示を示す。左端のウィンドウは、視覚システムへの現在の中心窩入力を示す。２番目のウィンドウは、どのシステム（ＳＴＭ／ＬＴＭ）が紫色の長方形により中心窩（ボトムアップ）入力に対して十分に良好な又はより良好な一致を有するかを示す。緑色は、どのシステムがトップダウンの影響を受けているかを示す。このウィンドウの上半分及び下半分は、ＳＴＭ及びＬＴＭそれぞれに対応する。残りの表示について、上半分は、ＳＴＭに属し、下半分は、ＬＴＭに属する。（実線で強調表示された）正方形に配置された４つのウィンドウは、入力画像、出力画像、ＳＯＭ重み、及びＳＯＭ勝利者オーバーレイを有するＳＯＭ訓練記録を（時計回りに）示す。右側の２つのウィンドウは、視覚ＳＯＭの複製について、シーケンス画像で予測された次のものを表示している。
記憶データベースからの訓練
記憶データベースからの経験を使用して、睡眠中にＬＴＭを訓練することができる。記憶データベースの多くの反復を（ランダムに又は体系的に）提供することができる。
言語
本明細書に記載される記憶システムを言語システムに接続することにより、具現化されたエージェントをそれらが相互作用することができる環境でモデル化することによって、具現化されたエージェントの意味を基礎づかせることができる。記号知識ベースを提供する代わりに、具現化されたエージェントは、それらが受信する感覚入力及びそれらが生成するアクションからそれら自身の意味を作り出す。本明細書に記載の記憶システムを言語システムと接続することによって、特定の言語から離れて抽象化された関連する構文構造は、交差言語的一般化を捕捉することができる。
エピソードの記憶
エージェントは、単純な文で報告することができる世界での出来事を示すエピソードを経験することができる。エピソードは、アクション及びその参加者の周囲を中心とする文サイズの意味単位として表されるイベントである。異なるオブジェクトは、エピソードにおいて異なる「意味役割」／「主題役割」を果たす。例えば、ＷＭエージェントは、アクションの原因又は開始剤であり、ＷＭ患者は、アクションの目標又は被験者である。エピソードは、エージェントが作用し、他のエージェントによって行われるアクションを知覚し、イベントを計画若しくは想像し、又は過去のイベントを覚えていることを伴うことができる。他の経験のようなエピソードは、経験記憶ストア及び記憶データベースに記憶することができる。エピソードの表現は、作業記憶システムで記憶及び処理することができ、作業記憶システムは、別個のアクションとして符号化された準備されたシーケンス／規則性としてエピソードを処理する。ＷＭシステム４０は、下位レベルのオブジェクト／エピソードの知覚を記憶、（上位レベル）挙動制御、及び言語と接続する。
図１１は、エピソードを処理及び記憶するように構成された作業記憶システム（ＷＭシステム）４０を示す。ＷＭシステム４０は、ＷＭエピソード４２及びＷＭ個体４１を含む。ＷＭ個体４１は、エピソードで主役を演じる個体を定義する。ＷＭエピソード４２は、ＷＭ個体及びアクションを含む、エピソードを含む全ての要素を含む。個体ＷＭエージェント及びＷＭ患者を含むＷＭエピソード４２の簡単な例では、ＷＭエージェント、ＷＭ患者、及びＷＭアクションは、順次処理されて、ＷＭエピソードを満たす。
個体ストア／媒体４６は、ＷＭ個体を記憶し、個体が新規の又は再び注意を向けられた個体であるかどうかを判定するために使用することができる。個体ストア／媒体は、新規の個体が新たに動員されたニューロンの重みに記憶され、再び注意を向けられた個体が再び注意を向けられた個体を表すニューロンを更新する、ＳＯＭ又はＡＳＯＭとして実装することができる。一実施形態では、個体ストア／媒体は、別個の個体としての位置、数、及び特性などの個体の属性の固有の組み合わせを記憶するＣＤＺの収束ゾーンである。ＡＳＯＭは、望ましくは、高い学習率及びほぼゼロの近傍サイズを有し、個体を直ちに（ワンショット）学習することができ、トポグラフィ的編成を有さない（異なる個体の表現が互いに影響を与えないように）。異なる個体の特性は、異なるニューロンの重みに記憶され、その目的のために、勝利ニューロンのアクティビティが新規性閾値を下回る場合、新しい未使用のニューロンが動員され、そうでなければ、勝利者の重みが更新される。
位置、数、及び特性は、個体バッファ４８から順次、一度に１つ到着する。個体ストア／媒体４６システムは、すでに充填された構成要素について非ゼロのアルファで常にクエリされ、したがって、それは、例えば、個体がその位置で最近見られた場合、位置に基づいて数及び特性を予測することができる。しかしながら、システムの可塑性は、位置－数－特性のシーケンスが正常に完了したときにのみ、オンになる。次いで、個体ストア／媒体４６システムは、その学習サイクルを通過し、それが終了すると、しばらくの間そこに留まり、個体を（その古い／新規の状態と共に）エピソードバッファのそれぞれのエージェント／患者バッファにコピーすることを可能にする。
エピソードストア／媒体４７は、ＷＭエピソードを記憶する。エピソードストア／媒体は、個体及びアクションの組み合わせに対して訓練されるＳＯＭ又はＡＳＯＭとして実装することができる。一実施形態では、エピソードストア／媒体は、エピソード要素の固有の組み合わせを記憶するＣＤＺの収束ゾーンである。エピソードストア／媒体４７は、３つの入力フィールド、それぞれのＷＭエピソードスロットから入力を取るエージェント、患者、及びアクションを有するＡＳＯＭとして実装することができる。入力フィールドの混合係数（アルファ）は、入力フィールドの入力が正常に処理されたときにのみ、非ゼロである。これは、入力フィールドが徐々に充填されると、ＡＳＯＭが残りの入力フィールドに関する予測、例えば、どのエピソードにこのエージェントが典型的に関与するか、を送達することを意味する。
個体バッファ４８は、個体の属性を順次取得する。シーケンスが終了すると（全てのバッファの保持ゲートが閉じられている）、エピソードストア／媒体４７の可塑性は、オンになり、エピソードストア／媒体４７は、位置、数、及び特性のこの特定の組み合わせを新しい個体として記憶する（又は再び注意を向けられたものを更新する）ことができる。エピソードストア／媒体４７がその処理を終了すると、サイクル全体が再び開始する。
エピソードバッファは、エピソードの要素を順次取得する。エピソードストア／媒体システムの可塑性は、エピソードシーケンスが正常に終了したとき／場合のみ、オンになる。これにより、注意機構が誤ったエピソード参加者を推測する場合に、正しくない表現が学習されないことを確実にする。
強化学習構成要素
知覚されたエピソードがエージェントに特定の報酬をもたらした場合、それは、追加の入力フィールドとしてエピソードストア／媒体４７のエピソードに関連付けることができる。エピソードの知覚の間、報酬に対するゼロＡＳＯＭアルファ重みを有するエピソードストア／媒体４７は、現在知覚されているエピソードに関連付けられた予想される報酬の予測をもたらす。アクション実行中、報酬入力を使用して、報酬の特定の値に関連付けられたエピソードを優先的にアクティブ化するために媒体をプライミングすることができる。
感情
知覚されたエピソードが特定の感じられた感情又は情動値と接続された場合、それは、追加の入力フィールドとしてエピソードストア／媒体４７のエピソードに関連付けることができる。エピソードの知覚の間、感情に対するゼロＡＳＯＭアルファ重みを有するエピソードストア／媒体４７は、予測されるエピソードに関連付けられた感情をもたらす。アクション実行中、情動値を使用して、同様の感情に関連付けられたエピソードを優先的にアクティブ化するために媒体をプライミングすることができる。
具現化されたエージェントの詳細及び変形形態
トップダウン及びボトムアップの神経行動学的モデリング
本発明の実施形態は、出現する挙動の能力がある下位レベルのモデリングを、生物学における基礎知識があまりないが、所与のタスクに対してより速く、かつより効果的である上位レベルの抽象モデルと組み合わせることによって、人工知能を改善する。出現する挙動の能力があるアーキテクチャを有する具現化されたエージェントの例は、また本発明の譲受人に譲渡され、参照により本明細書に組み込まれる、米国特許第１０１８１２１３（Ｂ２）号に開示されている。高度モジュールプログラミング環境により、相互接続された上位レベルの「ブラックボックス」（モジュール１０）を有するトップダウン認知アーキテクチャを可能にする。各「ブラックボックス」は、理想的には、相互接続された生物学的に妥当な下位レベルモデルの集合を含むが、抽象的なルール若しくは論理ステートメント、知識ベース／データベースへのアクセス、会話エンジン、従来の機械学習ニューラルネットワークを使用した入力の処理、又は任意の他の計算技術を容易に含むことができる。各モジュール１２の入力及び出力は、挙動を駆動するために使用することができるモジュールの「変数」（したがって、アニメーションパラメータ）として露出される。コネクタは、モジュール１２間で変数を通信する。その最も単純なものでは、コネクタは、各時間ステップで１つの変数の値を別のモジュール１２にコピーする。これらの上位レベルの記号プロセスは、下位レベル神経回路のモデルから出現する挙動と統合される。出現する挙動は、自然な方法で上位レベルのプロセスと相互作用する。計算を実行する回路は、制御のいかなる中心点もなく、並行して連続的に稼働する。プログラミング環境は、いかなる単一の制御スクリプトもモジュール１２に一連の命令を実行することを可能にしないことによって、この原理をハードコード化することができる。プログラミング環境は、より神経的に妥当な分散機構のセットを介して認知及び挙動の制御をサポートする。
漏れのある積分器は、タイミングを制御する３つの主なパラメータ：ＩＦＣ、ＭＦＣ、及び電圧閾値を有する。タイミングを制御するためにパラメータを修正する場合、最も簡単なものは、ＭＦＣを調整すること、より速い減衰のために増加させることであり、逆も同様である。ＣＤＺの典型的な電圧閾値は、０．１であってもよい。
感情
感情は、経験した又は感じた構成要素及び行動応答が存在する、協調した脳－身体状態としてモデル化される。情動神経科学ベースのアプローチがモデル化され、行動回路が生理学的パラメータによって変調される。生理学的調節は、感覚状態、認知状態、及びモータ状態の相互作用を変化させる。仮想神経伝達物質は、刺激に対する反応で生成され、これは、感情にマッピングして、行動応答をガイドすることができる。例えば、「脅迫的刺激」は、仮想ノルエピネフリン及びコルチゾールの放出をトリガし、これらは、闘争又は闘争応答のためのエネルギーを放出し、恐怖の感覚を引き起こす。（何らかの関数によって評価したときの）微笑む人間の顔又は柔和な声は、仮想オキシトシン及びドーパミンをトリガすることができ、これは、正の結合価状態にマッピングし、幸福などの感情を減少し、微笑む顔の表情を生成し、動揺挙動を低減する。
利点
したがって、リアルタイム学習ネットワークアーキテクチャが提供され、最も卓越した機械学習アルゴリズムがオフラインで学習し、大量のデータを必要とする。エージェントは、（それらの環境と相互作用することによって）それら自体によって学習することができ、（ユーザがそれに特定の刺激を提示することによって）教える、又は（記憶を埋め込むことによって）完全にユーザ制御することができる。アーキテクチャは、異なるタイプの物事を学習することができる、学習のための一般的なアーキテクチャである。
更に、出現する挙動の原因を理解することができるため、リアルタイム学習ネットワークアーキテクチャは、ブラックボックスではない。挙動を引き起こす経路を介して遡ることが可能である。ＳＯＭは、任意の形態の入力、例えば、１ホットベクトル、ＲＧＢ画像、ディープニューラルネットワークからの特徴ベクトル、又はその他のなんでもに対応することができる。更に、アーキテクチャは、階層的に積み重ね可能であり、下位レベルの入力は、統合され、他の関連付け領域と更に統合される。これにより、互いに素なモダリティを間接的に関連させることが可能になり、これにより、複雑な挙動を引き起こすことができる。
本明細書に開示されるようなマップは、エージェントがイベントを柔軟に符号化し、ライブ動作の過程で記憶された情報を取り出すことを可能にする。世界を経験する過程で、記憶に留められたイベントを表すマップが、符号化する新しいイベントと共に提示される。しかし、具現化されたエージェントがこのイベントを経験している間に、この同じマップは、これまで経験したイベントの部分と共に提示され、かつ残りの部分を予測するように求められる、「クエリモード」で使用され、したがって、これらの予測は、感覚運動的プロセスへのトップダウンガイドとして機能することができる。
ＳＯＭは、ＨＴＭタイプシステムを構築する代替的な方法を与えるが、トポグラフィ的に自己編成する利点を有し、したがって、クラスタ情報がより良好である。ＳＯＭは、ゆっくりと、かつオフラインで訓練される必要がある従来のディープネットワークとは異なり、迅速なワンショット学習をサポートする。ＳＯＭは、それらが受信する入力パターンにわたる一般化の学習を容易にサポートする。ＳＯＭは、マップ内の各ニューロンの重みベクトル内にその記憶を記憶することができる。これにより、二重表現が可能になる。ＳＯＭのアクティビティは、複数の選択肢に対して確率分布を表すが、各選択肢のコンテンツは、各ニューロンの重みに記憶され、トップダウンで再構築することができる。
ＡＳＯＭは、異なるソース／モダリティから来る入力を柔軟に関連付け、それらに動的に変更可能な注意／重要性を与えることができる。アクティベーションの流れは、反転させることができる。ＡＳＯＭは、ボトムアップ（入力からアクティベーションに）及びトップダウン（アクティベーションから再構築された入力に）の処理の両方、並びにそれらの組み合わせをサポートする。ＳＯＭは、ノイズの多い入力をノイズ除去する（denoisify）、又は欠落した部分を再構築する、又はプロトタイプ及び入力とプロトタイプとが異なるハイライト部分を返すことができる。これは全て、ＳＯＭの階層の複数のレベルにわたって機能する。
概要
一実施形態では、具現化されたエージェントを生きているように動かす方法であって、第１のモダリティでの経験の第１の表現に対応する感覚入力を受信するステップと、経験記憶ストアにクエリして、第２のモダリティでの経験の第２の表現を取り出すステップと、第２のモダリティでの第２の表現を使用して、具現化されたエージェントを生きているように動かすステップと、を含む、方法。
別の実施形態では、具現化されたエージェントの記憶を記憶するためのシステムであって、具現化されたエージェントの動作の過程で経験された経験から入力された経験記憶ストアであって、各経験が、異なるモダリティでの経験の複数の表現に関連付けられ、経験記憶ストアが、ニューラルネットワークの重みに経験の表現を記憶する、経験記憶ストアと、経験記憶ストアに記憶された経験のコピーを記憶する記憶データベースであって、異なるモダリティでの経験の表現に対応する生データを記憶する、記憶データベースと、を備える、システム。
別の実施形態では、具現化されたエージェントによって経験された経験をエージェントのライブ動作の過程で選択的に記憶する方法であって、複数のモダリティで入力を受信するための複数の入力ストリームからの入力の表現を受信するステップであって、各入力ストリームが、入力ストリームに適格性トレースを作成する少なくとも１つの条件に関連付けられている、ステップと、２つ以上の入力ストリーム（「適格な」入力ストリーム）の同時に起こる適格性トレースを検出するステップと、適格な入力ストリームからの入力の表現を記憶して関連付けるステップと、を含む、方法。
別の実施形態では、各ニューロンが重みベクトル及び訓練記録に関連付けられた、複数のニューロンを含むＳＯＭを訓練する方法であって、入力ベクトルを受信するステップと、入力ベクトルが「新しい」かどうかを判定するステップと、入力ベクトルが新しくない場合、第１の勝利ニューロンを選択し、入力ベクトルと勝利ニューロンとの間のより高い類似性を支持し、第１の勝利ニューロンの重みベクトルを入力ベクトルに向かって修正するステップと、入力ベクトルが新しい場合、第２の勝利ニューロンを選択し、より低い訓練記録を有するニューロンを支持し、第２の勝利ニューロンの重みベクトルを入力ベクトルに向かって修正するステップと、を含む、方法。
別の実施形態では、具現化されたエージェントによって経験された経験をエージェントの動作の過程で選択的に記憶するための方法を実装したシステムであって、複数のモダリティで入力を受信するための複数の入力ストリームからの入力の表現を受信するステップであって、各入力ストリームが、入力ストリームに適格性トレースを作成する少なくとも１つの条件に関連付けられている、ステップと、２つ以上の入力ストリーム（「適格な」入力ストリーム）の同時に起こる適格性トレースを検出するステップと、適格な入力ストリームからの入力の表現を記憶して関連付けるステップと、を含む、システム。

本明細書に記載の実施形態は、人工知能の分野、並びに具現化されたエージェントの記憶（Memory in Embodied Agents）を実装及び使用するためのシステム及び方法に関する。より具体的には、限定するものではないが、本明細書に記載の実施形態は、教師なし学習に関する。
人工知能（Artificial Intelligence、ＡＩ）の目的は、人間のような学習及び記憶を含む、人間と同様の能力を有するコンピュータシステムを構築することである。ほとんどの現代の機械学習技術は、「オフライン」学習に依存しており、ＡＩシステムには、特定のドメインを学習して、それに限定するために準備され、かつクリーンにされたデータが提供される。先行技術における顕著な課題は、人間のような方法で世界のオブジェクト及びイベントを経験し、かつ具体化された相互作用から学習する、ＡＩシステムを作り出すことに留まる。それらの実施形態及びそれらの環境との感覚運動的フィードバックループにより、そのようなＡＩエージェントは、それら自身の学習に影響を及ぼし、ガイドすることができる。そのようなエージェントは、世界からのマルチモーダルデータのストリームの意味を理解し、情報を有意義かつ有用な方法で保持するであろう。更に顕著な課題は、それ自身の経験から学習することができ、並びに外部ソース（人間のユーザなど）によってその記憶をオーサリング又は変更させることができる、柔軟なＡＩの具現化されたエージェントを作り出すことである。階層的一時的記憶（Hierarchical Temporal Memory、ＨＴＭ）は、皮質層の類似体として複数のレジスタを有する計算構造に基づく人間の記憶を複製するためのアプローチである。ＨＴＭは、大脳皮質のパッチを複製するように構成されている。それにもかかわらず、ＨＴＭは、具現化されたエージェントが感覚運動的経験からリアルタイムで学習し発達することを可能にする、具現化されたエージェントの記憶（Memory in Embodied Agents）を提供することができない。
図１は、ＣＤＺアーキテクチャの概略図。 図２は、ＡＳＯＭ。 図３は、異なるモダリティの適格性信号。 図４は、適格性トレースが適格性ウィンドウを作成する方法。 図５は、学習イベントのフェーズ。 図６は、異なるモダリティの適格性を設定するためのユーザインターフェース。 図７は、ＡＳＯＭ訓練の表示。 図８は、クエリビューア入力フィールド。 図９は、クエリパターンを指定するためのユーザインターフェース。 図１０は、ＬＴＭ及びＳＴＭの表示。 図１１は、作業記憶システム（ＷＭシステム）。
計算構造は、経験からリアルタイムで入力し、かつ／又はオーサリングすることができる記憶を有する具現化されたエージェントを提供する。具現化されたエージェント（仮想オブジェクト、デジタルエンティティ、又はロボットであってもよい）には、具現化されたエージェントの挙動に影響を与える、又は指示する１つ以上の経験記憶ストアが提供される。経験記憶ストアは、収束発散ゾーン（Convergence Divergence Zone、ＣＤＺ）を含むことができ、これは、想起中に再経験することができる心的イメージ又はシミュレーションの形態で外部現実を表すように人間の記憶の能力をシミュレートする。記憶データベースは、簡単でオーサリング可能な方法で生成され、具現化されたエージェントのライブ動作中に経験を学習又はオーサリングすることを可能にする。適格性に基づく学習は、マルチモーダル情報のストリームからのどの態様が経験記憶ストアに記憶されるかを判定する。
経験記憶ストア
一実施形態では、エージェントによって経験された経験は、１つ以上の経験記憶ストアに記憶される。「経験」は、オブジェクト、イベント、感情、観察、アクション、又はそれらの任意の組み合わせなどの、具現化されたエージェントが感知又は知覚することができる何でもとして広く解釈されるべきである。経験記憶ストア（単数又は複数）は、ニューラルネットワーク重みに経験の次元を縮小した表現を記憶することができる。
収束発散ゾーンＣＤＺ
一実施形態では、経験記憶ストアは、収束発散ゾーン（ＣＤＺ）として実装される。ＣＤＺは、アクティビティが記録されるサイトから収束投影を受信し、かつ発散投影を同じサイトに返す、ネットワークである。ＣＤＺのパターンは、部分的に提示された知覚パターンを完了する、又はそのようなパターンに応じて作用する「気質」を保持する。階層的上流結合記憶は、下位感覚及び／又はモータマップのアクティビティの組み合わせを関連付けて、構成要素特性の下流再構築を可能にする潜在記憶（例えば、オブジェクトの集約特性）を形成する。例えば、オブジェクト分類に使用することができるオブジェクトの経験を記憶する経験記憶ストアは、以下のようにＣＤＺを使用して実装することができる。各ユニモーダルオブジェクト分類経路は、ＣＤＺの階層であり、オブジェクトの明示的なマップは、知覚中に構築され、想起中に再構築される。任意の単一の下位レベルモダリティでパターンをアクティブ化することにより、１つが学習された場合、上位レベルのマルチモーダルＣＤＺのパターンをトリガすることができる。次いで、このアクティビティは、他のＣＤＺに「トップダウン」で流入するアクティビティをトリガして、初期パターンに関連付けられた、経験記憶ストアが学習したパターンをアクティブ化することができる。
図１は、ＣＤＺ１の図を示す。マルチモーダルＣＤＺは、各上位レベルのユニモーダルＣＤＺの上に位置する。２つのモダリティＸとＹとの間の関連付けは、ＸからＹへの直接リンクによってではなく、Ｘ及びＹの両方に独立してリンクされた別個の領域（「収束ゾーン」）Ｚに保持される。表現は、複数の領域から領域Ｚの領域に収束する。収束ゾーンの宣言的表現は、下位領域内の刺激間の関連付けを記憶する。関連付けを明らかにするために、パターンは、明示的にアクティブ化される。収束ゾーン表現がアクティブ化されると、それは、下位領域のセット内の関連付けられたパターンのアクティビティを明らかにし、したがって、単一の領域からある範囲の領域にアクティビティを拡散させる「発散ゾーン」として機能する。
収束発散ゾーンは、いくつかのモダリティから入力を受信することができ、次いでモダリティのいずれかによってアクティブ化することができる、マップを使用して実装することができる。マップは、下位レベルマップからアクティベーションマップを取って同時アクティベーションを関連付けることによって、異なる入力を関連付ける、結合自己編成マップ（Associative Self-Organizing Maps、ＡＳＯＭ）であってもよい。ＡＳＯＭは、ニューロン重みベクトルに対応する入力フィールドのサイズ及び数を有する入力ベクトルを受信し、各入力フィールドは、異なるモダリティ又は入力タイプを表す。多くの入力に対して訓練されると、マップは、同様の入力のトポロジー的グループ化を学習する。ＡＳＯＭは、「ボトムアップ」構築様式及び「トップダウン」再構築様式の両方で機能することができる。ＡＳＯＭは、入力情報に対して比較することができる予測を生成することができる。最下位レベルの（関連付けられていない）感覚、モータ、又は他のアクティビティサイトは、自己編成マップなどのマップとして、又は任意の他の適切な方法で実装することができる。
図３は、下位レベルＳＯＭと上位レベルＡＳＯＭとの間のマッピングを示し、ＡＳＯＭは、収束ゾーン（ＣＤＺ）の構造的構築入力フィールドである。下位レベルＳＯＭＳは、視覚、オーディオ、タッチ、神経化学（Neurochemical、ＮＣ）、及び位置のモダリティに対応する感覚運動的入力を含む。ＣＤＺの階層的に構造化されたセットでは、下位のＣＤＺ ＳＯＭは、上位レベルのＣＤＺ ＳＯＭへの入力を提供する。収束発散ゾーンとして機能する上位レベルＡＳＯＭは、視覚－オーディオ－タッチ（Visual-Audio-Touch、ＶＡＴ）、視覚－モータ（Visual-Motor、ＶＭ）、視覚－神経化学（Visual-Neurochemical、ＶＮＣ）を含む。視覚－オーディオ－タッチ（ＶＡＴ）ＡＳＯＭ収束発散ゾーンは、上位レベルのＶＡＴ－アクティビティ－位置ＡＳＯＭ内の位置モダリティに関連付けられている。
ＣＤＺは、リアルタイム学習システムがマルチモーダル記憶及び情動記憶を記憶することを可能にする。これは、例えば、具現化されたエージェントが犬を「想像する」又は単語「犬」を聞くと、犬を表す上位レベルＡＳＯＭ内の１つ以上のニューロンがアクティブ化される方法である。上位レベルのＡＳＯＭは、（犬の画像を示す）視覚、（犬がほえるのを聞く）オーディオの下位レベル感覚マップ、及び更には、それらが最初に犬を経験したときに感じた具現化されたエージェントが経験した感情を再現する感情的状態マップへのポインタを有する。
モダリティ
「モダリティ」は、その表現、発現、又は経験を含む、存在する何かの態様として広く解釈されるべきである。オブジェクト及び／又はイベントは、視覚、オーディオ、タッチ、モータ、及び神経化学を含むがこれらに限定されない、異なるモダリティで経験することができる。一実施形態では、各モダリティ入力は、個々のＳＯＭによって表され、かつ／又は学習される。各モダリティに関連付けられたマップを含むアーキテクチャを使用してもよく、その結果、２つ以上のモダリティが同時に経験されるとき、組み合わせは、それらの元の下位マップ内の２つの感覚の各々へのポインタとして、上位レベルの（結合）マップに記憶される。結合マップは、それが関連付けるモダリティのいずれかに対応する入力によってアクティブ化することができる。モダリティのうちの１つのみからの入力が受信される場合、他のモダリティからの対応する表現を予測することができる。
視覚入力は、任意の好適な様式で、具現化されたエージェントにストリーミングすることができる。一実施形態では、現実世界の環境を捕捉するカメラを介して、視覚が、具現化されたエージェントに提供される。視覚は、ユーザインターフェースのスクリーンキャストから、又は他の方法でコンピュータシステムから送達することができる。したがって、具現化されたエージェントの視覚は、人間のユーザをカメラを介して見ることを含むことができる現実世界、若しくは「仮想世界」若しくは計算表現（画面表現若しくはＶＲ／ＡＲシステム表現など）、又はこれら２つの任意の組み合わせを対象とすることができる。「現実世界」及び「インターフェース」の視野の両方は、具現化されたエージェントが２つの別個の視野を有するように、具現化されたエージェントに対して表すことができる。各視野は、注意を制御する関連付けられた顕著性マップを有することができる。一実施形態では、これら２つのマップにわたる単一の顕著な領域のみが、注意のためにこれまで選択されており、そのため、それが注意ルーチンになると、２つの視野は、２つの部分を有する単一の視野として取り扱うことができる。カメラ入力のサブ領域は、仮想「中心窩」、すなわち、具現化されたエージェントの眼が向けられている場所に対応するビデオ入力のより小さな領域に自動的にマッピングすることができる。中心窩画像サブ領域は、モジュール、例えば、影響分類器及び／又はオブジェクト分類器で更に処理することができる。これにより、具現化されたエージェントがカメラ入力の小さい部分のみに注意を向けて、次元を縮小することが可能になる。一実施形態では、２８×２８のＲＧＢ中心窩画像が提供される。周辺画像も処理することができるが、はるかに低い解像度である。
オーディオ入力は、聴覚システムで処理される波形を捕捉する、マイクロフォンを介して送達することができる。一実施形態では、音響特性をＦＦＴ及び他の技術を用いて分析して、スペクトログラムを作成し、これを、聴覚ＳＯＭへの入力として使用する（例えば、２０×１４（ｆ×ｔ）のスペクトログラム）。聴覚ＳＯＭは、オーディオ入力の周波数特定性マップを学習する。代替的及び／又は追加的に、オーディオファイルからのもの又はコンピュータシステムからのストリーミングなどのデジタルオーディオ入力を、具現化されたエージェントに送達することができる。音響信号は、入力語句に対応する値のベクトルを提供するディープニューラルネットワークを介して分析することができる。これらは、単語マッピングを学習する第２の独立した聴覚ＳＯＭに供給される。周波数特定性及び単語マップは、オーディオモダリティの最終表現である上位レベルの聴覚ＡＳＯＭによって更に統合することができる。
タッチ感覚は、仮想環境とのその相互作用に基づいて、具現化されたエージェントに提供することができる。例えば、具現化されたエージェントの身体の一部が具現化されたエージェントの環境内の別のオブジェクトと交差する場合は常に、オブジェクト交差は、具現化されたエージェントのタッチ感覚をトリガすることができる。そのようなタッチ感覚は、具現化されたエージェントの身体の固有受容性マップ、具現化されたエージェントの環境のマップ、及び／又は任意の他のモダリティに関連付けることができる。具現化されたエージェントが仮想世界の特定の「タッチ可能な」オブジェクトにタッチする場合、衝突が検出され、具現化されたエージェントのエフェクタ（例えば、指）上の機械受容器で、アクティビティがトリガされる。タッチ感覚は、マウス、キーボード、又はタッチスクリーンなどのコンピュータ入力デバイスを介して、具現化されたエージェントに提供することができる。例えば、スクリーンに「タッチすること」により、具現化されたエージェント身体の一部に突出し、（タッチスクリーン上の）指又はマウスカーソルを機械受容器マップに「接触させる」。記号入力（例えば、キーボード入力）は、任意のタッチ感覚、例えば、オブジェクトテクスチャにマッピングすることができる。例えば、触覚オブジェクトタイプＳＯＭは、異なるオブジェクトテクスチャをマッピングすることができる。オブジェクトの形状もまた、タッチ及びモータの移動の両方を伴う触覚システムを介して登録することができる。
「位置」モダリティは、具現化されたエージェントの中心窩のｘ及びｙ座標を含む中心窩位置を表すことができる。座標は、位置からアクティビティへのＳＯＭを介して１０×１０のアクティベーションマップに直接変換することができる。
内受容性感覚は、具現化されたエージェントの身体の内部状態の具現化されたエージェントの知覚感覚である。内受容性状態空間マップは、空腹、渇望、疲労、心拍数、痛み、及び嫌悪に関するなど、身体の瞬間状態を表す信号からの入力を取ることによって形成される。神経化学パラメータは、情動システムの一部である生理学的内部状態変数を表す。内受容性マップは、具現化されたエージェントの状態空間を表す。モデル化することができる神経調節物質の例としては、モータ機能のためのアセチルコリン、ストレス指標としてのコルチゾール、社会的結合のためのオキシトシンが挙げられる。主要な感情の基本的な表現は、高次元神経化学空間にマッピングすることができ、これは、行動応答を変調して、連続的な直感的に感じた状態から個別の心理的カテゴリへのマッピングを提供する。内受容性感覚は、イベントが身体の感情的な神経化学状態に関連付けられているため、具現化されたエージェントの意思決定に寄与することができ、その結果、想像されたイベントの想起された感情は、意思決定の要因である。
固有受容性システムは、エージェントのエフェクタ（例えば、手足、頭、及びエージェントの胴体の構成）の位置を含む、具現化されたエージェントの身体の構成に関する固有受容器を介した知覚認識を有する具現化されたエージェントを提供する。固有受容性マップは、具現化されたエージェントの身体の骨格モデルから送達される各関節の角度に関する情報を含むことができる。具現化されたエージェントの筋肉組織のより詳細な生体力学モデルでは、固有受容性マップはまた、筋肉伸張及び張力に関する情報を含むことができる。モータモダリティを使用して、アクションのタイプをマッピングすることができる。
個々の単語は、書かれた単語、聴覚音素表現、及び／又は他の記号を介して、オブジェクト、アクション、イベント、又は概念の表現に関連付けることができる。概念の表現に関連付けられた１つ以上の記号は、概念を表す感覚モダリティに関連付けられるモダリティとして記憶することができる。
味覚、嗅覚などの任意の他の好適なモダリティ（又は同様のものの仮想表現）を実装することができる。モダリティの特定の態様は、それら自体のモダリティとしてモデル化することができる。例えば、視覚モダリティは、光モダリティ、色モダリティ、及び形態モダリティを含むいくつかのモダリティに分割することができる。温度、痛み、空腹、又はバランスなどの内部感覚は、モデル化することができる。
経験記憶ストアを直接オーサリングする
その訓練後重みを有する訓練されたニューラルネットワーク（ＳＯＭなど）を、重みを直接経験していない具現化されたエージェントに記憶することが可能である。このようにして、「空白の」具現化されたエージェントに、その経験記憶ストア（単数又は複数）のニューラルネットワーク重みに埋め込まれた（例えば、オブジェクトの）知識を提供することができる。
記憶データベース（記憶ファイル）
一実施形態では、経験の表現は、経験記憶ストアに加えて、記憶データベースに記憶することができる。記憶データベースは、具現化されたエージェントの経験を介して自動的に入力及び／又はオーサリングすることができる。ユーザ又は自動システムは、記憶データベースに記憶された記憶を取り出し、記憶データベース内の新しい記憶をオーサリングし、かつ／又は記憶を削除することができる。各経験されたモダリティの表現に対応する生データは、記憶データベースに記憶し、対応する経験に関連付けることができる。例えば、視覚モダリティに関する記憶の構成要素は、画像ファイル（例えば、ＪＰＥＧ、ＰＮＧなど）にリンクすることができ、聴覚モダリティに関する構成要素は、オーディオファイル（例えば、ＭＰ３）にリンクすることができる。
記憶データベースは、任意の好適な様式で、例えば、ファイルの集合を記憶するデータベース及び／又はフォルダとして、実装することができる。一実施形態では、記憶データベースは、経験を記憶するＣＳＶファイルである。ＣＳＶエントリは、エントリに対応する経験に関連付けられた生データの表現を含む、又はそれを指すことができる。関連付けられた画像又は生の入力に対応する他の生データとして記憶を記憶することにより、経験をエージェントによって再生／処理することが可能になる。具現化されたエージェントは、具現化されたエージェントがそれらを経験しているかのように、それらの入力を学習することができる。
一実施形態では、具現化されたエージェントのライブ動作中、具現化されたエージェントは、経験記憶ストア並びに記憶データベースの両方に経験の記憶を同時に記憶する。例えば、ほえる犬の経験は、経験記憶ストアに記憶されたマルチモーダル記憶として記憶し、また、画像、音、感情価、及びテキスト／音声発話を含む他の関連するマルチモーダルデータを含む、記憶データベース内の経験に対応するエントリの属性としても記憶することができる。
ファイル内の経験を記憶することはまた、イベントが起こった時間（タイムスタンプ）、イベントのＧＰＳ位置、又は経験に関する任意の他のコンテキスト情報などの、経験に関するメタデータ又は追加のデータを記憶することを伴うことができる。
経験を介して記憶を入力する
一実施形態では、記憶データベースに記憶された記憶は、具現化されたエージェントのライブ動作の過程で、具現化されたエージェントのリアルタイム経験から入力される。エージェントは、また本発明の譲受人に譲渡され、参照により本明細書に組み込まれる、「Ｍａｃｈｉｎｅ Ｉｎｔｅｒａｃｔｉｏｎ」と題されたニュージーランド仮特許出願第ＮＺ７４４４１０号に記載されているように、現実世界及び／又は仮想世界からの感覚ストリームと相互作用する。
本明細書に記載されるように、具現化されたエージェントは、経験を介して、新しい、感情的、又はユーザがシグナリングした経験を選択的に学習することができる。その経験記憶ストアがＣＤＺとして実装される具現化されたエージェントでは、記憶は、ＣＤＺに記憶される。経験の新しい記憶がＣＤＺに記憶される場合は常に、下位レベルＳＯＭからの表現は、記憶データベースへの新しいエントリの属性及び／又はファイルとして保存される。
記憶データベースを介して経験記憶ストアを訓練する
記憶データベースを使用して、経験記憶ストアを訓練することができる。記憶データベース内のエントリは、統合中に経験記憶ストアへの訓練入力として提供される。経験記憶ストア内に符号化された記憶により、エージェントがオブジェクト、概念、イベントを認識して、予測することが可能になる。一例として、ユーザは、特定の学習ドメインの入力ファイルのセットを生成することができる。例えば、エージェントは、犬の名前を含む記号、それらのほえる音のスペクトログラム、及び犬が引き起こすことになる情動反応などの関連付けられたモダリティを有する異なる犬種の画像を有する記憶データベースを提供されることによって、ライブ動作中に犬を経験することなく「犬の専門家」になることができる。
ＣＤＺの実装形態では、記憶データベース内のエントリは、ＣＤＺを再訓練するために使用され、基礎となる収束／発散ゾーン（例えば、ＳＯＭ／ＡＳＯＭ）の重みを変更する。訓練中、エントリに対応する生ファイル／データは、経験記憶ストアによって一度に１つの経験を再読み取りされる。オブジェクト学習イベントを例に取ると、視覚、聴覚、及びタッチのモダリティに対応する生データがロードされ、学習イベントをトリガする。記憶統合中に発生する長期記憶学習イベントは、「記憶統合」と題されたセクションで考察されるように、リアルタイム学習よりもはるかに速い時間スケールで起こり得る。一実施形態では、エージェントを「訓練する」ために使用されている生ファイルは、エージェントが過去の経験を「追体験する」又は「再び想像する」際に、エージェントの「夢想」をシミュレートするために表示することができる。
記憶を再構築する
記憶データベース内のエントリは、再読み取りされて、記憶を再構築することができる。例えば、それらは、短期記憶経験記憶ストアを訓練して、「仮想イベント」を生成する、又は記憶統合中に長期記憶経験記憶ストアを訓練することができる。生の感覚入力が下位レベルマップのニューロンの重みに記憶される際に経験記憶ストアから、学習イベントをトリガした生のセンサ入力（画像など）を再構築することが可能であってもよい。しかしながら、潜在的には、いくつかの異なる入力ベクトルが単一のニューロンの重みを修正することができるため、ニューラルネットワーク内の結果として生じる重みは、いくつかの入力インスタンスのブレンドであってもよい。記憶データベースは、個々の入力ベクトル及びそれらの構成要素入力フィールドを関連付けられた属性を有する別個のエントリとして明示的に記憶するため、記憶データベースは、個々の経験を正確に再構築する方法を提供する。
記憶を修正又は削除する
記憶は、例えば、記憶データベース内のエントリを修正することによって（オブジェクトの結合価を変更することなどの明示的な修正）、又はエントリ全体を削除することによって、ユーザによって選択的に修正することができる。全てのエントリを削除することによって、具現化されたエージェントの記憶全体を削除して、白紙状態を残すことができる。一実施形態では、各統合において、経験記憶ストアは、クリアされ、更新された記憶データベース（編集又は削除されたエントリを含むことができる）を使用して訓練することによって、完全に再入力される。ＳＯＭである経験記憶ストアでは、経験記憶ストアのクリアは、全てのニューロン重みをランダム化することによって達成することができる。
他の実施形態では、経験記憶ストア全体をクリアするのではなく、更新された又は修正された経験は、経験記憶ストアに配置されて、特定のデータポイントを「捨て去る」ことによって、選択的に削除されて、経験記憶ストアを形成することができる。「忘れる」モデルでは、経験は、タイムスタンプされ、又は他の方法で記憶の新しさを示すようにマークされ、古いイベントは、これらを経験記憶ストア及び／又は記憶データベースから削除することによって、「忘れられ」てもよい。
記憶をオーサリングする
エージェントが新しい経験をして新しい記憶を作成することを必要とする代わりに、経験に対応する記憶エントリを、エージェントの記憶に直接「埋め込む」ことができる。これにより、指示可能な、人工的に操作可能な具現化されたエージェントを作り出す。例えば、エージェントは、経験に対する指示された自律応答（特定の刺激に対する否定的な反応など）を有するようにプログラムすることができる。したがって、記憶データベース内のエントリは、外部ツールによって「オーサリング」することができ、並びに具現化されたエージェントのリアルタイムの感覚運動的経験で直接学習することができる。
テキストコーパスを使用してオーサリングする
記憶のオーサリングは、テキストコーパスを有するコンテキストで行うことができる。イベントの記憶をオーサリングするためのマークアップされたテキストコーパスの例は、以下のようである。［タイムスタンプ］赤い自動車（画像、音）は左（場所）に走っていった（アクション）。私はそれが好き＜ではなかった＞（感情）
リアルタイムの感覚運動的コンテキストは、具現化されたエージェントの単語選択（好き、好きではなかった）及び直示的かつ感情的状態を反映することができる。これは、単語などの記号に関連付けられている生入力（画像／音／感触など）のルックアップテーブルを提供することによって達成することができる。これにより、文を介してイベントを学習するための入力の迅速な作成が可能になる。ルックアップテーブル内の対応する単語に一致するデータは、経験記憶ストアを訓練し、かつ／又は記憶データベース内の生データに関連付けられた詳細なエントリを作成するために、取り出される。オブジェクト、アクション、及び感情に関する既存の知識を有する具現化されたエージェントでは、構文構造を使用してイベントの構成要素を関連付けることによって、イベントをオーサリングすることができる。
記憶は、個々の記憶を位置特定、修正、及び／又は削除するのを容易にする様式で分類、ラベル付け、又はタグ付けすることができる。ユーザが具現化されたエージェントの記憶を閲覧及び編集するのを容易にするために、ユーザインターフェースを提供することができる。
自己編成マップ（ＳＯＭ）を使用した実装形態
自己編成マップ
モダリティ及び収束発散ゾーンの両方は、Ｋｏｈｏｎｅｎマップとしても知られている、自己編成マップ（ＳＯＭ）、教師なし学習ベースの記憶構造を使用して表すことができる。このデータの離散化／量子化表現を提供するために、ＳＯＭ（１、２、若しくは３．．．又はｎ次元であってもよい）は、データセットに対して訓練される。次いで、この離散化／量子化を使用して、元のデータセットのコンテキスト内の新しいデータを分類することができる。
加重距離関数
従来のＳＯＭでは、入力ベクトルとニューロンの重みベクトルとの間の相違は、入力ベクトル全体にわたる単純な距離関数（例えば、ユークリッド距離又はコサイン類似）を使用して計算される。しかしながら、一部のアプリケーションでは、（異なる入力フィールドに対応する）入力ベクトルのいくつかの部分を他よりも高く重み付けすることが望ましい場合がある。
一実施形態では、マルチモーダル記憶のために結合自己編成マップ（ＡＳＯＭ）が提供され、入力ベクトルのサブセットに対応する各入力フィールドは、ＡＳＯＭアルファ重みと呼ばれる項によって加重距離関数に寄与する。ＡＳＯＭは、入力フィールドのセットとニューロンの重みベクトルとの間の差を、モノリシックなユークリッド距離としてではなく、最初に入力ベクトルを入力フィールド（入力ベクトルに記録された異なる属性に対応し得る）に分割することによって計算する。異なる入力フィールド内のベクトル成分の差は、異なるＡＳＯＭアルファ重みにより合計距離に寄与する。ＡＳＯＭの単一の結果として得られるアクティビティは、加重距離関数に基づいて計算され、入力ベクトルの異なる部分は、異なる意味（semantics）及びそれ自体のＡＳＯＭアルファ重み値を有することができる。したがって、ＡＳＯＭへの全体的な入力は、異なるモダリティ、他のＳＯＭのアクティビティ、又は他の何かなどの、いかなる入力が関連付けられることになるかも包含する。
図２は、いくつかのモダリティからの入力を統合するＡＳＯＭのアーキテクチャを示す。ＡＳＯＭへの入力
Figure 2022541883000021
は、Ｋ個の入力フィールド３２からなる。各入力フィールドは、ｉ＝１．．．Ｋについてのｄｉｍｋニューロンのベクトル
Figure 2022541883000022
である。入力フィールド３２は、感覚入力の直接１ホット符号化、１Ｄ確率分布、下位レベル自己編成マップのアクティビティの２Ｄマトリックス、又は任意の他の好適な表現であってもよい。
図２のＡＳＯＭ ３は、Ｎ個のニューロンからなり、全入力に対応する重みベクトル
Figure 2022541883000023
を有する各ニューロンｉ＝１．．．Ｎは、ｋ＝１．．．Ｋについての部分重みベクトル
Figure 2022541883000024
のＫ個の入力フィールドに分割される。入力
Figure 2022541883000025
が提供されると、各ＡＳＯＭニューロンは、最初に入力とニューロンの重みベクトルとの間の入力フィールドごとの距離を計算する。
Figure 2022541883000026
式中、αｋは、ｋ番目の入力フィールドのボトムアップ混合係数／ゲイン（ＡＳＯＭアルファ重み）である。ｄｉｓｔｋは、入力フィールド固有の距離関数である。任意の好適な距離関数（単数又は複数）が使用されてもよく、これには、以下が挙げられるが、これらに限定されない。ユークリッド距離、ＫＬ発散、コサインベースの距離。
一実施形態では、加重距離関数は、以下のようにユークリッド距離に基づく。
Figure 2022541883000027
式中、Ｋは、入力フィールドの数であり、αｉは、各入力フィールドの対応するＡＳＯＭアルファ重みであり、Ｄｉは、ｉ番目の入力フィールドの次元性であり、ｘｊ （ｉ）又はｗｊ （ｉ）は、それぞれｉ番目の入力フィールドのｊ番目の成分、又は対応するニューロン重みである。
いくつかの実施形態では、ＡＳＯＭアルファ重みは、正規化されてもよい。例えば、ユークリッド距離関数が使用される場合、アクティビティＡＳＯＭアルファ重みは、通常、合計が１になるようにされる。しかしながら、他の実施形態では、ＡＳＯＭアルファ重みは、正規化されていない。正規化しないことにより、多数の入力フィールド又は粗から密まで動的に変化する高次元ＡＳＯＭアルファ重みベクトルを有するＡＳＯＭなどの特定のアプリケーションにおいて、より安定な距離関数（例えば、ユークリッド距離）をもたらすことができる。
記憶をサンプリングする方法：夢想及びＩＯＲ
ＳＯＭに記憶されたアイテムをランダムに再構築することが望ましい場合がある。これは、例えば、長期記憶の統合中の擬似訓練アイテムの構築、又はモータバブリング中のモータ移動のランダムな生成において起こる。これらの場合、ＳＯＭの訓練記録は、再構築するＳＯＭニューロンの確率的選択を駆動する。サンプリングは、訓練された値の完全なセットからサンプリングするために、復帰抑制（inhibition-of-return、ＩＯＲ）プロセスと組み合わせることができる。
訓練記録
ＳＯＭの完全なアクティビティから再構築するとき、全てのニューロンは、これらのニューロンが意味のある仮説を表すように訓練されている、又は初期ランダムノイズを含むかに関係なく、入力ベクトルに対するそれらの重みベクトルの類似性に比例して寄与する。
よりクリーンな再構築された出力を提供するために、より多くの訓練を受けたニューロンにより多くの重みが与えられてもよい（訓練されていないニューロンを無視する）。各ニューロンの適応量は、ＳＯＭパラメータ「訓練記録」でアクセス可能な０～１の値として記録することができる。
訓練記録は、０に初期化され固定入力１に接続された、各ニューロンの追加のスカラー重みである。Ｈｅｃｅ、この特定のニューロンが訓練されるたびに、それが勝利者である又は勝利者の近傍にあるのいずれかであるため、ニューロンの訓練記録は、現在の（一致の良好さのために、潜在的に適応した）学習率に比例して増加する。これは、訓練の過程で、訓練記録は、１に向かって上昇することを意味する。
マップ内の全てのニューロンの訓練記録値の平均（「マップ占有率」）は、古いものを上書きすることなく新しい入力を学習するためのマップの自由容量を示す。１の「最大占有率」は、「完全な／混雑したマップ」（自由容量なし）を示し、０の「最大占有率」は、訓練されていないマップを意味する。
訓練記録は、ＳＯＭのアクティビティ計算においてアクティベーションマスクの値（項ｍｉ）として機能することができる。ベイズ項では、均一なｍｉ（全ての仮説が等しく確からしい状態の平坦な事前確率）を使用する代わりに、これは、観察の頻度に基づいて事前確率を採用することに等しい。すなわち、結果として得られる確率分布は、入力が、ＳＯＭを訓練した以前に見られた入力のうちの１つであるという仮定を条件としている。
訓練記録は、経時的に減衰することができ、これは、探索が最近の訓練の領域を回避するが、領域が長い間再アクティブ化されていない場合、それを新しい記憶のために再生利用することができることを意味する。訓練記録が訓練の履歴を記憶する方法は、パラメータ訓練記録減衰を介して調整可能である。１の訓練記録減衰値は、減衰がないことを意味する。１未満の訓練記録減衰値は、訓練記録が（０～１の値によって判定された新しさを有する）直近の訓練のみを反映することを意味する。
重みのトップダウン再構築によってコンテンツを検査する
下位レベルＳＯＭのアクティビティが上位レベルＳＯＭへの入力を提供する、接続されたＳＯＭの階層では、アクティベーションの流れは、トップダウン再構築中に反転させることができる。上位レベルＳＯＭからの再構築された入力は、下位のＳＯＭにトップダウン信号を提供する：予想されるアクティベーションのパターン。この信号は、下位ＳＯＭのトップダウンバイアスフィールドに供給することができる。それは、下位ＳＯＭがそれ自体の入力から導出するアクティベーションのパターンと組み合わせることができる。
ニューロンに記憶された「記憶」の生コンテンツは、取り出すことができ、記憶は、訓練状況及びまたＳＯＭパラメータに応じて、個々のイベントに等しくなり得る、又はいくつかのイベントのブレンドであり得る（例えば、小さなシグマ、大きな学習率＝「鋭い」個々の記憶、より大きなシグマ及びより小さい学習率は、一般化された記憶及びブレンドされた記憶をもたらす）。
高速学習のためにＡＳＯＭを構成する
逆伝搬ベースの学習方法は、小さな重み更新を介した遅い学習を必要とするが、ＳＯＭニューロン表現のローカリスト（localist）性質により、単一の露出であっても、それらが非常に急速に入力パターンを学習することが可能になる。従来のＳＯＭで（いくつかの提示のみの後に）入力を「高速」に学習することにより遭遇した問題は、以前に符号化された入力の上書きである。別個の訓練アイテム（又は少なくとも目的のために別個であると考えられる訓練アイテム、例えば、異なるクラスのメンバー）は、別々のニューロン又は領域にそれらを符号化することによって、ＳＯＭ内で分離されているべきである。同時に、互いに十分に類似しているアイテムは、同じニューロン又は領域に符号化されるべきである。ゆっくりと学習するＳＯＭを使用して関連付ける以前の試みとは異なり、本明細書に記載のＡＳＯＭは、「高速に」学習することができる。ＡＳＯＭは、所与の入力を単一の露出で単一のＳＯＭニューロン（又は領域）によって符号化することができるように、高い学習定数／学習頻度値を選択することによって、高速に学習するように設定することができる。しかしながら、アイテムの大きなセットの実用的な高速学習を可能にするためには、学習定数を変化させることは、十分ではない。
入力が「新しい」かどうかは、判定することができ、一致が十分に近くない場合、「勝利ニューロン」は、上書きされず、代わりに、異なるニューロンが選択される。ＡＳＯＭに提示されたアイテムが「新しい」又は「古い」と見なされるかどうかを制御する「最良一致閾値」パラメータを定義することができる。「最良一致閾値」は、入力アイテムに最も強く応答するＳＯＭニューロンの（生－非正規化）アクティビティ値に対する閾値である。この値が「最良一致閾値」を下回る場合、アイテムは、「新しい」と見なされ、そうでなければアイテムは、「古い」と見なされる。新しいアイテムは、ＳＯＭに別々のパターンとして記憶され、古いアイテムは、既存のパターンを更新する。
新しいアイテムに遭遇すると、「探索方法」パラメータは、どのニューロンを新しい入力を符号化するために割り当てるかを判定する。任意の好適な探索方法を使用することができる。例としては、以下が挙げられる。
・ 入力探索に対するノイズ：現在の入力にランダムノイズを追加し、この修正された入力までの距離に適用されるガウスアクティベーション関数に基づいて、新しい勝利者を見つける。
・ アクティベーション探索に対するノイズ：新しい勝利者は、元のアクティベーションマップとランダムノイズで満たされた二次マップとの混合物である、複合アクティベーションマップから選択される。二次マップの混合係数は、比較＿ノイズと呼ばれ、どれだけ元のマップが歪んでいるかを判定する。比較＿ノイズの小さい値は、元の勝利者の近傍の局所探索を引き起こす。
アクティビティをノイズと混合する代わりに、二次マップは、ＳＯＭの特定の領域に向かう又はそれから離れるバイアスを符号化する何でも、例えば、以前の勝利ニューロンが回避されていることを確実にし、かつＳＯＭをより均一に入力することを促進するために、各ニューロンが最近どのくらいの頻度及びどのくらいアクティブであったかを逆比例して反映する値に設定することができる。特に有用な方法は、各ニューロンが（合計で、又は最近）受けた訓練量、いわゆる訓練記録の経過を追うこと、及び（以前に訓練されていない／死んだニューロンに関与する）訓練された領域からの勝利者の選択をはじくことである。
マップの各ニューロン／領域の記録、それが受けた訓練の程度、及び勝利ニューロンのための競争は、依然として入力に対する類似性に依存するが、多くの訓練を受けた領域から離れてバイアスされる。ネットワークは、均一に入力され、（悪い初期重みのために決して訓練されなかった）「死んだニューロン」は、低減される。アクティベーションノイズとして訓練記録の逆数を使用することにより、未使用のニューロンがある場合、これらが最初に割り当てられることを確実にする。
ＳＯＭのトポグラフィ的編成を保持し、元の勝利者の近傍に新しい勝利者を配置するために、「比較＿ノイズ」を小さい値に設定することができる。比較ノイズが小さい場合、元のアクティベーションは、依然として強い影響を有し、したがって、新しい勝利者が古い勝利者の近傍から来る可能性が高い。次いで、それは、現在の入力で訓練され、元の勝利者は、それが以前に有するものを符号化し、新しい入力は、それを上書きするのではなく、むしろ近くのニューロンによって表される。
各ニューロンが最近どれくらいの頻度及びどれくらいアクティブであったかを逆比例して反映する値のマップにパターンを設定する（それにより、以前に未使用のニューロンに関与することにより、ＳＯＭにより均一に入力することを促進し、第１の勝利者が選択されないことを確実にする）ことは、ＳＯＭ同型ベクトルに対して以下のように擬似コードを使用して計算することができる。
Figure 2022541883000028
アイテムが「古い」と見なされる場合、それは、何らかの学習がすでに行われた領域内のＳＯＭに記憶される。標準的なＳＯＭでは、同じアイテムが繰り返し提示される場合、このニューロンを表す領域は、発達し、潜在的にサイズが成長して、最終的にＳＯＭ全体を支配し得る。これは、ＳＯＭの非効率的な使用である。この効果を制御するために、「最良一致学習乗数」パラメータは、勝利ニューロンのアクティビティに従って、ＳＯＭの学習頻度を調整する。「最良一致学習乗数」がゼロに設定される場合、正確に繰り返されるアイテムは、ＳＯＭ内に任意の新しい学習を誘発しない。それが１に設定される場合、元のＳＯＭの学習頻度の調整はない。学習頻度に対する乗数Ｍは、次のものなどの式を使用して計算することができる。Ｍ＝１－生の勝利者アクティビティ＊（１－最良一致学習乗数）。完全な一致の近傍のより多くのニューロンがその値に向かって適合することができ、かつ再構築された「ソフト」出力はまた、どのくらいの頻度で異なる値に遭遇したかの頻度も反映するため、完全な一致の場合であっても何らかの訓練が良好であるため、０ではなく、最良一致学習乗数の低い非ゼロ値が望ましい場合がある。
前述のように、高速学習ＳＯＭで遭遇する問題は、大きな学習頻度がニューロンを上書きするリスクを増加させることである。小さな学習頻度では、重みは、完全に上書きされないが、平均化されている。そのパラメータの値に応じて、ＳＯＭは、遅い学習又は高速学習のために構成することができる。遅い学習（標準的なＫｏｈｏｎｅｎ ＳＯＭによって説明したような、かつ脳内の皮質学習に類似している、個々の記憶を一般化／ブレンドすることができる）は、より小さい学習頻度、近傍サイズシグマのより高い値、例えば、最良＿一致＿閾値＝０を設定することによって無効化された新規性検出によって特徴付けられる。高速学習は、最大学習頻度、非常に小さなシグマ、高く設定された最良＿一致＿閾値によって特徴付けられ、脳内の海馬学習に類似しており、（個々の経験を別々に／直交して、かつ正確に表す高い程度を有する）確率的ルックアップテーブルのように挙動することができる。上記のパラメータの範囲が連続的であるため、高速学習と遅い学習の混合物がＳＯＭで達成可能である。ＳＯＭが混雑している（そのマップ占有率の観点で、訓練記録のセクションで説明したように）ときに学習頻度を適応的に低下させることが可能である。次いで、ＳＯＭは、標準的な遅い学習のＳＯＭに自動的に切り替わる（完全マップにおいて高速に学習し続けることは、古い知識を上書きする／忘れることを意味するため）。学習頻度を低減すると、新しい記憶は、最も類似した古いものとブレンドされる。一実施形態では、学習の「速度」は、ＳＯＭ容量に依存する。十分な容量を有するＳＯＭでは、ＳＯＭは、個々の記憶に対して高速（１ショットでも）かつ大きな精度で学習するように構成することができる。より漸進的な学習への遷移は、ＳＯＭがその全容量に近づく（古い記憶を新しいものと完全に置き換えるのではなく、むしろそれらをブレンドするように）際に生じ得る。どれくらいの容量（すなわち、古い記憶を上書きすることなく訓練することができる未使用のニューロン）が残っているかを監視するために、ニューロン当たりの訓練記録の平均値、すなわち、合計＿ｉ（訓練記録［ｉ］）／マップ＿サイズとして、マップ占有率を定義することができる。値０は、空／訓練されていないマップを意味し、値１は、完全なマップを意味する。速いマップタイプから遅いマップタイプに遷移するために、パラメータ学習頻度、シグマ、及び最良一致閾値は、マップ占有率の増加と共に徐々に適合させることができる。代替的に、別個の切り替えを、マップ占有率が特定の閾値、例えば９０％（０．９）を上回ると行うことができる。
的を絞った忘却
ＳＯＭによって学習された全てを「忘れること」は、全てのニューロン重みベクトルをランダムノイズに置き換えること（ＳＯＭが初期化されるのと同じ方法）によって、達成可能である。しかしながら、「的を絞った忘却」が有用である状況が存在する。例えば、
・誤って学習した、直近に学習した経験を「元に戻す」こと。
・特定の種類の全ての記憶、すなわち、発砲の音に関連付けられた全ての画像を忘れること。
・まれにしかない記憶を忘れること（それらが偶然に起こり、かつ繰り返し遭遇する経験ほど良好な品質ではないものと仮定して）。
・非常に古い記憶を忘れること（開始時に訓練が不安定であり、かつそのときからの表現が低い品質のものであると推定して）。
的を絞った忘却は、「リセットマスク」と呼ばれる（アクティベーションマスクに類似した）マスクによって制御される。リセットマスクは、ＳＯＭと同型である（すなわち、各ＳＯＭニューロンに対して１つのマスク値を有する）。ニューロンの重みベクトルをノイズに置き換える場合、リセットマスク＝１であるニューロンのみがリセットされ、他のもの（リセットマスク＝０である）は、保持される。
あるいは、リセットマスク値は、０～１であってもよく、その場合、元の重みベクトルは、リセットマスク値によって判定された混合係数でランダムノイズと混合される。
新しい＿重み［ｉ］＝（１－リセット＿マスク［ｉ］）＊元の＿重み［ｉ］＋リセット＿マスク［ｉ］＊ノイズ
リセット中、リセットされたニューロンの訓練記録がクリアされるように、訓練記録を更新することができる（すなわち、離散的なリセットマスクの場合、リセットマスク＝１のニューロンに対して訓練記録：＝０）。連続混合（記憶をぼかす）の場合、
新しい＿訓練＿記録［ｉ］）＝（１－リセット＿マスク［ｉ］）＊元の＿訓練＿記録［ｉ］）
適切なリセットマスクは、以下の要件に従って設定することができる。
リセットマスクは、ＳＯＭの直近のアクティベーションマップ（元に戻したい経験に対して訓練された直後のＳＯＭ全体のアクティビティ）に設定される。これにより、部分的な忘却－アクティビティのサイズに比例したぼかしを引き起こす。代替的に、離散的なリセットマスクは、例えば、確率的ＳＯＭに対して、アクティベーションがリセット閾値よりも大きい全てのニューロンについて、リセットマスクを１に設定し、残りの部分について、０に設定して、作成されてもよい。又は、非確率的ＳＯＭでは、勝利ニューロンについてマスク値を１に設定し、全ての他のニューロンについて、０に設定する。
関連付けられた記憶が忘れられる刺激が入力される。上記の例では、発砲がオーディオ入力フィールド上に提供され、ビデオのＡＳＯＭアルファ重みは、０に設定される（発砲に関連付けられた全てのビデオを取り出すために）。結果として得られたアクティベーションマップは、リセットマスクとして直接使用することができる。代替的に、離散的なリセットマスクは、例えば、アクティベーションが設定閾値よりも大きい全てのニューロンについて、リセットマスクを１に設定し、残りの部分について、０に設定して、作成されてもよい。又は、勝利ニューロンについて１に設定し、全ての他のニューロンについて、０に設定する。リセットマスクは、１－訓練記録に設定される、又はその離散化されたバージョンに設定される（訓練記録［ｉ］＜閾値の場合、リセットマスク［ｉ］＝１、そうでなければ０）。訓練記録減衰は、訓練中に値＜１に設定される。これにより、新しい訓練によって「リフレッシュ」されていないニューロンについて訓練記録を経時的にゼロに摩滅させる。次いで、リセットマスクは、１－訓練記録に設定される、又はその離散化されたバージョンに設定される（訓練記録［ｉ］＜リセット閾値の場合、リセットマスク［ｉ］＝１、そうでなければ０）。
ＡＳＯＭ可視化
ＳＯＭは、多次元データを可視化するためのツールとして使用することができる。図７は、５つの入力フィールドを関連付けるＡＳＯＭのＡＳＯＭ訓練の表示を示す（数字ビットマップ、偶数、５未満、３の倍数、色）。可視化は、訓練中のＡＳＯＭ重みの編成、及びクエリを満たすデータがクエリに対して表される場所を表示するように、どのようにＡＳＯＭをクエリすることができるかを示す。訓練データが指定され、各データは、数字、続いて、数字が偶数、５未満、及び３の倍数（この順序で）、並びに（任意の）色であるかどうかを指定する（バイナリ）フラグを含む。ＡＳＯＭは、任意の好適な様式でデータに対して訓練される。近傍サイズ及び学習率は、徐々にアニールすることができる。
図７は、入力パターン（数字自体が２０×２０のビットマップで表される）、再構築された出力パターン、ネットワークが重みに対して可塑性／訓練された、かつ静的ビューである場合を示すフラグを示す。ＡＳＯＭは、５つの入力フィールド（数字ビットマップ、偶数、５未満、３の倍数、色）を関連付けるため、重みマトリックスは、入力フィールド重みマトリックスに分解される。バイナリ情報が表される場合、色の白色は、ゼロ／偽を表し、黒色は、１／真を表す。ビットマップ及び色マップが表される場合、色は、それらの自然な意味を表す。
ＡＳＯＭが訓練されると、クエリを編成して、マップ上のどの場所がクエリを最も良く満たす領域であるかを動的に見ることが可能である。クエリビューは、図８に示すように、動的クエリビューア入力フィールドの列に表示される。各クエリは、他のものとは無関係であり、図９のスクリーンショットに示されるように、それぞれのタブ上のスライダを使用して操作することができる。クエリは、並んで表示され、その結果、ユーザは、異なるクエリに対応する領域を視覚的に比較することができる。
クエリを作成するために、ユーザ又は自動システムは、（例えば、図９に示されるように）１つ以上のクエリパターンを指定することができる。定義されたパターンの各々に対する影響の強度もまた、指定することができる（各入力フィールドに対してアルファ／入力フィールド重みとして）。強度は、バイナリ（０又は１）であってもよく、又は連続／ファジー混合クエリをサポートすることができる。
それぞれのビューのマップは、クエリに最も良く対応するＡＳＯＭの領域を示すことができ、出力は、クエリを最も良く近似する再構築されたデータを示す。パターンを組み合わせることによって、「５未満の偶数の３の倍数は何か」、又は「どの数字が青色の陰影であるか」などの質問をすることが可能である。
一致の厳密性、換言すれば、ＡＳＯＭのアクティベーション感度を増加する、又は減少させることが可能である（図９の一致厳密性変数に示されるように）。この実施例では、マップが完全に白色である、又は出力ビットマップが完全に黒色である場合、一致の厳密性を減少させることが望ましい場合があり、マップが暗すぎる、又はビットマップがぼけすぎている場合は、厳密性を増加することが望ましい場合がある。
各ビューは、マスターＡＳＯＭの２つのコピーを有し、１つは、そのアクティビティを可視化するためのものであり、他方は、出力を再構築するためのものである。アクティビティの重み付けされた組み合わせとして出力を計算するＡＳＯＭは、合計が１になるように正規化されたアクティビティを必要とし、一方、ＡＳＯＭを示すアクティビティマップは、各ニューロンの重みがクエリを満たす実際の程度を見るために、正規化なしの生のアクティビティを示すべきである。
ＡＳＯＭの例としては、ＶＡＴ（視覚／オーディオ／タッチ）、ＶＭ（視覚／モータ）、ＶＮＣ（視覚／ＮＣ）、ＶＡＴアクティビティＬ（ＶＡＴ／位置）、ＨＣ又はアクション結果（Ｖ１／Ｖ２／Ｍ／Ｌ１／Ｌ２／ＮＣ）が挙げられる。
クロスモーダルオブジェクト表現ＳＯＭ
クロスモーダルオブジェクト表現は、オブジェクトの異なる感覚モダリティを関連付けるＳＯＭで学習することができる。一実施形態では、視覚、オーディオ、及びタッチ入力を関連付け、オブジェクトタイプのモダリティ統合表現を学習するクロスモーダルオブジェクト表現ＳＯＭとして機能する。それは、オブジェクトタイプのユニモーダル表現を学習する３つのＳＯＭ、視覚オブジェクトタイプＳＯＭ、聴覚オブジェクトタイプＳＯＭ、及び触覚オブジェクトタイプＳＯＭから入力を取る。信号検出プロセスは、ＣＤＺ ＳＯＭの各入力フィールドに、そのフィールドにおける信号の開始を探し、開始が発生するとそのフィールドの適格性トレースをトリガする、関連付けられた信号検出プロセスを提供することによって、実装することができる。クロスモーダルオブジェクト表現ＳＯＭの場合、これらの信号は、３つの別個のモダリティの注意システムから来ることができる。クロスモーダルオブジェクト表現ＳＯＭ及びその入力ＳＯＭにおける学習は、３つの別個のモダリティの注意システムによって検出される下位レベルイベントによって駆動される。例えば、聴覚刺激に対するイベントは、特定の閾値よりも大きな音であってもよい。
学習はまた、適格性トレースを使用して実施されるように、これらの異なる信号間の何らかの調和を必要とする。適格性トレース（漏れのある統合及び発射ニューロンによって符号化される）は、イベントが検出されると、各モダリティで開始される。２つのモダリティのトレースが同時にアクティブである場合、学習は、これらのモダリティに対するタイプのＳＯＭで行われ、またクロスモーダルオブジェクト表現ＳＯＭでも行われる。
１つのモダリティだけでイベントが検出された場合、異なるモードの接続性がトリガされる。イベントを登録するモダリティでアクティブ化されたパターンは、モダリティ非依存オブジェクト表現をアクティブ化するクロスモーダルオブジェクト表現ＳＯＭに入力として渡される。次いで、この表現を使用して、他のユニモーダルタイプＳＯＭの表現を再構築し、その結果、欠落したモダリティのパターンがトップダウンで推測される。
このモデルでは、クロスモーダルオブジェクトタイプＳＯＭは、単一のモダリティでの刺激及び複数のモダリティでの刺激の両方によってアクティブ化される（それらが調和するという条件で）。
情動オブジェクト関連付けＳＯＭ
感情的状態は、入力刺激に関連付けることができる。例えば、オブジェクトを提示すると同時に、大きな、突然の、かつ／又は恐ろしいノイズをペアリングすることにより、具体化されたエージェントにおける感情的な条件付けを引き起こすことができる。オブジェクトに次に遭遇すると、それは、恐怖反応を誘発するであろう。そのような関連付けは、情動オブジェクト関連付けＡＳＯＭと呼ばれる収束ゾーン（ＣＤＺ）ＡＳＯＭで学習される。一実施形態では、これは、視覚モダリティを神経化学モダリティと関連付けるＡＳＯＭ（ＶＮＣ ＳＯＭ）によって達成される。このＡＳＯＭは、視覚オブジェクトタイプＳＯＭ、及びエージェントの感情的状態を保持する神経化学ＳＯＭから入力を取る。
情動オブジェクト関連付けＡＳＯＭの各入力フィールドは、そのフィールドにおける信号の開始を探し、開始が発生するとそのフィールドの適格性トレースをトリガする、関連付けられた信号検出プロセスを有する。オブジェクトタイプＳＯＭの適格性をトリガする信号は、例えば、視野内の有意な移動によってトリガすることができる、顕著性マップにおける新しい顕著な領域の選択である。感情的状態媒体の適格性をトリガするイベントは、感情的状態ベクトルに関連付けられた、このベクトルの突然の変化をシグナリングする「相」信号から計算される。
開始依存学習の原理により、ＳＯＭは、これらのフィールドの適格性トレースがそれらのそれぞれの閾値を上回って同時にアクティブである場合、その入力フィールド内の表現間の関連付けを学習することのみが可能である。この場合、この原理は、新たに顕著なオブジェクトが、所与の感情の突然の開始と時間的に同時発生すると知覚されるときに、感情的な関連付けが学習されることを確実にする。タイプＯの所与のオブジェクトとの感情的関連付けを学習した後に、新たに顕著なオブジェクトとしてのＯの提示は、関連付けられた感情を自動的にアクティブ化する。これは、欠落した入力の再構築の原理によって起こる。
オペラント学習
オペラント条件付けは、所与のコンテキストにおけるエージェントによって生成されたモータアクションが、アクションが実行されたしばらく後に到着する報酬刺激に関連付けられるプロセスである。これらの関連付けを学習する回路は、具現化されたエージェント内で常に稼働して、所与のコンテキストにおける報酬をもたらすアクションを示唆することができる。アクション結果ＡＳＯＭは、以前の収束ゾーン上に階層的に構築する収束ゾーンである。アクション結果ＡＳＯＭは、何らかの所与の時間に生じる知覚コンテキスト刺激（位置Ｌ１に現れる視覚オブジェクトタイプＴ１）、少し後に実行されるモータアクション、及びそのいくらか後に発生する報酬刺激の間の関連付けを学習する。報酬刺激は、別の位置Ｌ２に現れる別のタイプＴ２のオブジェクトに関連付けられる。アクション結果ＳＯＭは、知覚コンテキスト刺激の表現を記憶する必要がある。なぜなら、これが報酬刺激が現れる時間までに消失しているためである。アクション結果ＳＯＭへのＴ１及びＬ１の入力は、オブジェクトタイプＳＯＭで引き起こされる以前のオブジェクトタイプのコピー、及び顕著性マップで選択された以前の位置を保持する。Ｔ２及びＬ２の入力は、現在選択されている顕著性位置、及び現在アクティブなオブジェクトタイプである。したがって、アクション結果ＳＯＭは、記憶に留められたオブジェクトと現在知覚されているオブジェクトとの間の関連付けを学習する。適格性ウィンドウは、異なる時間に発生する関連付けられたイベントに対応するように調整することができる。
再構築記憶に基づく挙動
全ての具現化されたエージェントの挙動は、記憶を再構築することによって影響を受けることがある。具体化されたエージェント又はアバターを生成して生きているように動かすための神経行動学的モデリングフレームワークの使用は、また本発明の譲受人に譲渡され、参照により本明細書に組み込まれる、米国特許第１０１８１２１３（Ｂ２）号に開示されている。米国特許第１０１８１２１３（Ｂ２）号に記載されているものなどの神経行動学的モデル内で、異なるモダリティからの入力の再構築は、具現化されたエージェントの内部状態を変化させ、したがって、エージェントの挙動を修正することができる。
情動記憶をオーサリングすることにより、具現化されたエージェントにおける感情表出の自律的なトリガを可能にする。顧客サービスアバターでは、経験記憶ストアを使用して、アバター内の反応を効率的にプログラムすることができる。例えば、ブランドロイヤルティ顧客サービスアバターは、視覚的及び言葉の商標の両方を含む、ブランドに関連付けられた全ての商標に対する肯定的な情動反応を有するようにプログラムすることができる。例えば、ブランド名「Ｓｏｕｌ Ｍａｃｈｉｎｅｓ」を聞くことは、それに応じてエージェントの神経化学状態を変化させる、感覚「幸福な」に関連付けることができる。その言葉を聞くと、幸福の神経化学状態が予測され、アバターを微笑むように駆動する。
一実施形態では、経験又はイベントに対する直接反応は、オーサリング可能な記憶を介してエージェントに「埋め込む」ことができる。例えば、ブランド「Ｓｏｕｌ Ｍａｃｈｉｎｅｓ」を注意を払う／警戒、眼を見開くことの状態、すなわち、視覚モダリティが継続的に適格である状態に関連付ける記憶、及びＡＳＯＭを介して視覚モダリティに間接的に関連付けられた他のモダリティは、予測を生成するためにトップダウンで入力を受信する。
玩具用途では、アバター又は仮想文字などの具現化されたエージェントは、挙動を呈するようにユーザによってプログラムすることができる。例えば、仮想の友人と遊んでいる子供は、経験によって（仮想の友人の前にオブジェクトを提示し、否定的な顔の表情及び／又は言葉を生成する）、又はインターフェースを介して、特定のオブジェクトが不快であるという記憶を仮想の友人に「埋め込む」ことができる。
具現化されたエージェントの個性又は性格は、具現化されたエージェントの好み及び嫌悪を含む、記憶をオーサリングすることによって、オーサリングすることができる。オブジェクト及び／又はイベントに関連付けられた感情的状態をオーサリングすることによって、特定の個性を有するエージェントを開発することが容易である。いくつかのオブジェクトを提示して、感情的状態に関連付けることができる。例えば、アバターは、各々が「幸福な」感情に関連付けられたいくつかの異なる動物のファイルベースの記憶をオーサリングすることによって、動物愛好家の個性を有するようにプログラムすることができる。同様に、オブジェクトは、怒り、悲しみ、又は中立の感情に関連付けることができる。
モータプラン
モータ記憶システムは、エージェントが対応するモータアクション（単数又は複数）を実行するようにアクティブ化することができる、モータアクション及び／又はモータプランを個々に記憶するように提供することができる。モータアクションの例としては、押すこと、引きずること、及び引っ張ることが挙げられるが、これらに限定されない。各アクションは、特定の時空間パターン、例えば、アクションを表す場合の固有受容性関節位置のシーケンス、又は観察されたアクションの場合の視覚的に認識された関節位置のシーケンスによって特徴付けられる。時間次元は、回帰投影によって暗黙的に表すことができ、ＡＳＯＭは、以前の計算時間ステップにおいて、現在の入力をそれ自体のアクティビティに関連付ける。
具現化されたエージェントは、具体化されたエージェントが手足又は他のエフェクタなどの身体部分を意図的に移動させることを可能にする、モータ制御システムを有することができる。各関節の角度に関する情報は、エージェントの身体の骨格モデルから送達することができる。エージェントは、視覚空間内の指定された点に到達するための手－眼協調能力を有することができる。自己編成マップモデル（ＡＳＯＭ）は、エージェントが現実的な眼の移動及び到達運動によって変化する周囲の３Ｄ仮想（又は、ＶＲ／ＡＲの場合、現実）空間と相互作用することができるように、エージェントが手－眼協調を学習することを可能にすることができる。訓練されると、ＡＳＯＭは、目標位置を提示される場合、逆運動学及び戻り関節角度に使用することができる。
モータアクションは、個々のモータ移動（例えば、オブジェクトにタッチするために空間内の点に到達すること）、又は連続的な移動であってもよい。例えば、エージェントの手（又は他のエフェクタ）が異なる軌道及び／又は速度に沿って目標オブジェクトに移動するため、把持、平手打ち、及びパンチングなどのオブジェクトに向けられたモータアクションは、連続的な移動である。例えば、平手打ち及びパンチングのモータアクションの場合、軌道は、到達するためよりも速く、軌道はまた、手を引き戻すことを伴うことができる。手の指の軌道も説明することができる。把持は、手の指を開き、次いでそれらを閉じることを伴う。パンチング及び平手打ちは、オブジェクトと接触する前に手を特定の形状に構成することを伴う。
複数のモータアクションはそれぞれ、目標に関連付けられ、モータプランを作成するように順序付けることができる。プランを作成するためのシステムは、また本出願人によって所有され、参照により本明細書に組み込まれる、「ＳＹＳＴＥＭ ＦＯＲ ＳＥＱＵＥＮＣＩＮＧ ＡＮＤ ＰＬＡＮＮＩＮＧ」と題された仮特許出願第ＮＺ７５２９０１号に記載されている。
モータアクション及び／又はモータプランは、エピソード（ＷＭアクションとして）、オブジェクト（オブジェクトのアフォーダンスとして）、又は任意の他の経験若しくはモダリティに関連付けることができる。モータアクション及び／又はモータプランは、経験記憶ストア及び／若しくは記憶データベース並びに／又は作業記憶内の、モータアクション及び／又はモータプランを識別するラベル又は他の記号に関連付けることができる。モータプランの例としては、キーボードで曲を演奏すること、タッチスクリーン上に画像を描くこと、ドアを開けることが挙げられる。
モータプランは、ユーザインターフェースイベントに関連付けられてもよく、参照により本明細書に組み込まれる、「Ｍａｃｈｉｎｅ Ｉｎｔｅｒａｃｔｉｏｎ」と題されたニュージーランド仮特許出願第ＮＺ７４４４１０号に記載されているように、エージェントが相互作用しているアプリケーション又はコンピュータシステム上のイベントをトリガすることができる。例えば、目標に２回タッチすることは、ユーザインターフェース上で「ダブルクリック」することに変換することができる（その場合、「ボタン」に２回タッチするモータアクションは、ユーザインターフェース上のボタンのダブルクリックをトリガする）。
記憶を知覚して保持する
イベント駆動認知は、どのイベントが知覚される（したがって、具現化されたエージェントの他のサブシステムに通信される）かに関し、生物学的に現実的な強化スキームは、どのイベントが保持されるかを管理する。
記憶は、イベントから構築されるが、人間は、予想とは異なるものをより強く覚えている。この原理を具現化されたエージェントに適用することにより、感覚入力によって常にトリガされるのではなく、イベントによって具現化されたエージェントを駆動することが可能になる。これは、エージェントが「イベント」に反応するために必要な計算を低減する時間圧縮の形態である。イベントに関連する時間のスナップショットは、重要性、閾値を上回る音量、移動、新規性、コンテキスト情報、又は任意の他の好適なメトリックに基づいて保持することができる。イベントは、モダリティが学習に適格である適格性ウィンドウを作成するモダリティで適格性トレースをトリガすることによって、記憶貯蔵に寄与する。
適格性に基づく学習を使用して、どの「イベント」をエージェントが保持するかを判定することができる。イベントの発生は、モダリティの適格性トレース１９をトリガする。各入力チャネルは、それ自体の適格性トレースを有する。例えば、ボトムアップイベント（例えば、十分に大きな音）が存在する場合、「音」のための入力チャネルは、適格性ウィンドウ中に開いており、しばらく後に閉じる。入力タイプ（モダリティ）は、固有の適格性ニューロンに関連付けることができる。イベントがその対応する入力チャネルに発生した場合、ニューロンは、入力を受信する。入力チャネルは、ニューロンの電圧が閾値を上回る持続期間にわたって適格である。
漏れのある積分器（Leaky Integrator、ＬＩ）ニューロンは、適格性に基づく学習を容易にするために、適格性トレースを実装することができる。ＬＩニューロンのアクティビティは、特定のレベルで開始され、経時的に減衰する。所与のＬＩニューロンのアクティビティが特定の閾値を上回っている間に、「適格性のウィンドウ」が定義される。この期間中、何らかの関連付けられた回路は、学習に適格である。図４は、どのようにモダリティの適格性トレース１９がイベントトリガと漏れのある積分器ニューロンの電圧閾値との間に適格性ウィンドウ１８を作成するかを示す。
また本発明の譲受人に譲渡された米国特許第１０１８１２１３（Ｂ２）号に記載されているものなどの神経行動学的モデルでは、適格性トレースは、個々のシナプスではなく、ネットワーク全体に対して動作することができる。各下位レベル入力の適格性トレース及び適格性ウィンドウを作成することに伴うステップは、米国特許第１０１８１２１３（Ｂ２）号に記載のプログラミング環境の「コネクタ」において実行することができる。
適格性ウィンドウをＣＤＺ内で使用して、どのように及びいつ学習が起こるかを制御し、どのようにアクティビティが収束ゾーンのシステムを介して拡散するかを制御することができる。例えば、２つの入力フィールドを有するＳＯＭによって実装される単純な知覚収束ゾーンでは、各入力フィールドは、そのフィールドにおける信号の開始を探し、開始が発生するとそのフィールドの適格性トレースをトリガする、関連付けられた信号検出プロセスを有する。ＳＯＭにおける学習及びアクティビティは、ここで、全ての収束ゾーンＳＯＭにわたって動作する、いくつかの一般的な原理によって制御される。
収束ゾーンＳＯＭの各入力フィールドの適格性ウィンドウは、コンテキストパラメータに基づいて調整することができる。例えば、エージェントの感情的状態の特定のパラメータは、特定のウィンドウを伸長又は短縮させることができる。したがって、フラストレーションは、特定のウィンドウをより短くすることができ、リラクセーションは、それをより長くすることができる。
知覚信号又はモータ信号から直接入力を取るＣＤＺ ＳＯＭの場合、その入力フィールドに関連付けられた信号検出プロセスは、感覚又はモータ刺激の開始を捕捉する。ＣＤＺ ＳＯＭが別のＣＤＺ ＳＯＭからその入力を取る場合、信号検出プロセスは、下位ＣＤＺ ＳＯＭにおけるクリア信号の開始を識別することができる。これは、それが何か新しいものを表していることをシグナリングする、下位ＳＯＭのアクティビティパターンの変化の尺度で読み取ることができる。この変化尺度は、下位ＳＯＭのエントロピーの尺度と組み合わせることができる。ＳＯＭパターンが確率分布として解釈可能である場合、そのエントロピーは、測定することができる。変化は、ＳＯＭがその入力パターンを確信的に表していることを伝達する、低エントロピー状態をもたらす必要がある。下位ＳＯＭがゆっくりと学習するように構成されている場合、下位ＳＯＭのそれ自体の入力の符号化が十分にクリアになるまで、上位ＳＯＭは、学習しない。
アクティビティは、「トップダウンアクティベーション」フィールドを介して上位ＣＤＺ ＳＯＭから下位ＣＤＺ ＳＯＭまでトップダウンで流れることができる。下位レベルＳＯＭの適格性が高い場合、そのアクティビティは、上位結合ＳＯＭをアクティブ化し、上位結合ＳＯＭは、次いで、リアルタイムで他の接続された下位レベルＳＯＭにトップダウン信号を提供する。これらは、これらの入力を計算するボトムアッププロセスのためのリアルタイムのトップダウンガイドとして機能することができる。
タイミング媒介適格性ベースの学習では、これらのネットワーク内で関連付けが学習されるために、関連付けられたネットワーク内の２つの入力は、互いに特定の時間内に発生しなければならない。いくつかのＡＳＯＭは、これらのフィールドの適格性トレースが同時にアクティブである（それらのそれぞれの閾値を上回る）場合、それらの入力フィールド内の表現間の関連付けを学習することが可能になるだけであり得る。これにより、新しい信号が同時に又はある程度の時間的調和で到着したときにのみ学習が起こり、ランダムな信号又はノイズの多い信号間の関連付けの学習を防止することが確実になる。したがって、学習は、同時に起こる適格性ウィンドウを必要とする。例えば、視覚刺激と触覚刺激との間の関連付けを学習するために、視覚的及び触覚的表現のための同時に起こる適格性ウィンドウが存在しなければならない。これらの同時に起こる適格性ウィンドウは、異なる下位レベルマルチモーダル「イベント」の同時発生をモデル化する。図３は、異なるモダリティの適格性信号を示す。図５は、学習イベントのフラグ及びフェーズを示す。学習イベントは、２つの同時イベント（０及び１）によってトリガされる。イベントが発生している間、エージェントは、例えば、オーディオシーケンスが終了するのをサッカードする又は待機することによって、より多くの情報を取得することができる。この遅延は、漏れのある積分器ニューロンを使用して実装することができる。漏れのあるニューロンの入力周波数定数及び／又は膜周波数定数を変更して、遅延の長さを変更することができる。示されている全ての期間は、別個の漏れのあるニューロンによって制御される。イベントの終了時に、「一次」ＳＯＭでは２及び３で、並びに二次ＳＯＭでは４で、可塑性が存在する。階層にＣＤＺの複数の層が存在する場合、これは、一般的な学習イベントシーケンスであり、それに応じて階層を収容するために、学習フェーズを拡張することができる。
適格性トレースが１つの入力フィールドのみに対してアクティブである場合、ＳＯＭは、そのアクティビティがこのフィールドによってのみ駆動されるモードに置かれる。（すなわち、他の入力フィールド（単数又は複数）のＡＳＯＭアルファ重みは、ゼロに設定される）。次いで、他の入力フィールド内のアクティビティは、「重みのトップダウン再構築によってコンテンツを検査する」で説明したように、アクティブなＳＯＭパターンから再構築される。再構築された値は、欠落した入力フィールドが下位レベルの分類プロセスによって送達される場合、有用なトップダウンバイアスを提供する。再構築はまた、知覚「充填」の単純なモデルを提供し、それによって、欠落した関連付けられた情報が想像される。第１のフィールドの適格性トレースが依然としてアクティブである間に、再構築された（又は予測された）入力がボトムアップで到着することが可能である。この場合、ＳＯＭは、いくらかより多い学習を行い、予測を行うために使用される関連付けを強化する。一方、第１のフィールドの適格性トレースが依然としてアクティブである間に、予測されていない信号が第２のフィールドに到着する場合、新しい関連付けがＳＯＭで学習される。
一実施形態では、時間依存性ドーパミン可塑性モデルが実装されて、具現化されたエージェントによって観察される、どの（及びどの程度の）イベントが学習／保持されるかを判定する。行われる学習の量、すなわち、関連するシステムの「可塑性」は、いくつかの要因によって影響を受ける。関連する適格性信号（単数又は複数）のレベルは、１つの要因である。別の重要な要因は、同時に起こる「報酬」信号の強度である。報酬信号は、神経伝達物質レベル、具体的には、ドーパミンレベルとして実装することができる。ＡＳＯＭ、確率的ＳＯＭ、及びそれらの混合物などのマップは、いつＡＳＯＭの重みが更新されるかを判定する可塑性変数に関連付けることができる。過剰訓練を防止するために、可塑性は、別個の瞬間又は時間間隔で（例えば、新しい入力が到着すると）動的にオンにし、次いでオフにすることができる。ニューロンが過剰学習することを防止するために、重みを更新する前に、入力と勝利ニューロンとの間に良好な一致がある場合、学習頻度定数を減少させることができる。
記憶統合
経験記憶ストアは、２つの独立し、かつ競合するＳＯＭ、短期記憶（short-term memory、ＳＴＭ）及び長期記憶（long-term memory、ＬＴＭ）を含むことができる。ＳＴＭは、迅速なオンライン／高速学習のために構成することができ、これは、高ＬＦＣ及びデータの不十分なトポグラフィ配置での１ショット学習スタイルで訓練することができる。ＳＴＭは、更に統合された学習のためのａａ緩衝システムとして機能することができる。ＳＴＭの記憶は、各統合後に消去することができる。ＬＴＭは、低く、かつ時間減衰する学習頻度定数での遅いオフライン学習のために構成することができ、良好なトポグラフィグループ化をもたらす。ＬＴＭは、記憶統合（これは、「睡眠」としてアバターで発現することができる）中に訓練される。ＳＴＭからの訓練データは、ＬＴＭ ＳＯＭにシミュレート又は再生することができる。統合中、ＳＴＭは、訓練されたユニット（例えば、自己編成マップニューロン）をランダムな又は系統的な様式でアクティブ化して、オブジェクトタイプ及び画像を再現し、これをＬＴＭの訓練データとして提供することができる。ＬＴＭは、再現されたデータペア又はタプルに対して訓練し、それ自身の訓練データを用いて新しいデータに対して訓練をインターリーブすることができる。代替的に、ＳＴＭ ＳＯＭを使用してオブジェクトを再現する代わりに、記憶データベース内のエントリからの生データファイルを提供して、ＬＴＭを訓練することができる。
例えば、ＬＴＭ及びＳＴＭオブジェクト分類器は、視覚認識のために一定の競合にあってもよい。ＬＴＭ及びＳＴＭオブジェクト分類器の両方は、視覚空間の表現（例えば、画素）をオブジェクトタイプの共通の１ホット符号化にマッピングすることができる。ＬＴＭにおいて十分に良好な一致がない場合、システムは、ＳＴＭにおける一致を仮定する。ＬＴＭ一致は、そのエントロピーが閾値を下回り、かつ勝利者アクティビティが閾値を上回る場合に、満たされる。したがって、ＳＴＭ及びＳＴＭ分類器は、オブジェクトタイプを集合的かつ選言的に表す（ＳＴＭは、最後の統合からのオブジェクトタイプを表し、ＬＴＭは、最後の統合前に学習されたオブジェクトタイプを表す）。新しいオブジェクトに遭遇すると、最初に、オブジェクトが存在するかどうかについて、ＬＴＭをチェックすることができる。オブジェクトが存在しない場合、オブジェクトは、ＳＴＭで学習される。
図１０は、ＬＴＭ及びＳＴＭの表示を示す。左端のウィンドウは、視覚システムへの現在の中心窩入力を示す。２番目のウィンドウは、どのシステム（ＳＴＭ／ＬＴＭ）が紫色の長方形により中心窩（ボトムアップ）入力に対して十分に良好な又はより良好な一致を有するかを示す。緑色は、どのシステムがトップダウンの影響を受けているかを示す。このウィンドウの上半分及び下半分は、ＳＴＭ及びＬＴＭそれぞれに対応する。残りの表示について、上半分は、ＳＴＭに属し、下半分は、ＬＴＭに属する。（実線で強調表示された）正方形に配置された４つのウィンドウは、入力画像、出力画像、ＳＯＭ重み、及びＳＯＭ勝利者オーバーレイを有するＳＯＭ訓練記録を（時計回りに）示す。右側の２つのウィンドウは、視覚ＳＯＭの複製について、シーケンス画像で予測された次のものを表示している。
記憶データベースからの訓練
記憶データベースからの経験を使用して、睡眠中にＬＴＭを訓練することができる。記憶データベースの多くの反復を（ランダムに又は体系的に）提供することができる。
言語
本明細書に記載される記憶システムを言語システムに接続することにより、具現化されたエージェントをそれらが相互作用することができる環境でモデル化することによって、具現化されたエージェントの意味を基礎づかせることができる。記号知識ベースを提供する代わりに、具現化されたエージェントは、それらが受信する感覚入力及びそれらが生成するアクションからそれら自身の意味を作り出す。本明細書に記載の記憶システムを言語システムと接続することによって、特定の言語から離れて抽象化された関連する構文構造は、交差言語的一般化を捕捉することができる。
エピソードの記憶
エージェントは、単純な文で報告することができる世界での出来事を示すエピソードを経験することができる。エピソードは、アクション及びその参加者の周囲を中心とする文サイズの意味単位として表されるイベントである。異なるオブジェクトは、エピソードにおいて異なる「意味役割」／「主題役割」を果たす。例えば、ＷＭエージェントは、アクションの原因又は開始剤であり、ＷＭ患者は、アクションの目標又は被験者である。エピソードは、エージェントが作用し、他のエージェントによって行われるアクションを知覚し、イベントを計画若しくは想像し、又は過去のイベントを覚えていることを伴うことができる。他の経験のようなエピソードは、経験記憶ストア及び記憶データベースに記憶することができる。エピソードの表現は、作業記憶システムで記憶及び処理することができ、作業記憶システムは、別個のアクションとして符号化された準備されたシーケンス／規則性としてエピソードを処理する。ＷＭシステム４０は、下位レベルのオブジェクト／エピソードの知覚を記憶、（上位レベル）挙動制御、及び言語と接続する。
図１１は、エピソードを処理及び記憶するように構成された作業記憶システム（ＷＭシステム）４０を示す。ＷＭシステム４０は、ＷＭエピソード４２及びＷＭ個体４１を含む。ＷＭ個体４１は、エピソードで主役を演じる個体を定義する。ＷＭエピソード４２は、ＷＭ個体及びアクションを含む、エピソードを含む全ての要素を含む。個体ＷＭエージェント及びＷＭ患者を含むＷＭエピソード４２の簡単な例では、ＷＭエージェント、ＷＭ患者、及びＷＭアクションは、順次処理されて、ＷＭエピソードを満たす。
個体ストア／媒体４６は、ＷＭ個体を記憶し、個体が新規の又は再び注意を向けられた個体であるかどうかを判定するために使用することができる。個体ストア／媒体は、新規の個体が新たに動員されたニューロンの重みに記憶され、再び注意を向けられた個体が再び注意を向けられた個体を表すニューロンを更新する、ＳＯＭ又はＡＳＯＭとして実装することができる。一実施形態では、個体ストア／媒体は、別個の個体としての位置、数、及び特性などの個体の属性の固有の組み合わせを記憶するＣＤＺの収束ゾーンである。ＡＳＯＭは、望ましくは、高い学習率及びほぼゼロの近傍サイズを有し、個体を直ちに（ワンショット）学習することができ、トポグラフィ的編成を有さない（異なる個体の表現が互いに影響を与えないように）。異なる個体の特性は、異なるニューロンの重みに記憶され、その目的のために、勝利ニューロンのアクティビティが新規性閾値を下回る場合、新しい未使用のニューロンが動員され、そうでなければ、勝利者の重みが更新される。
位置、数、及び特性は、個体バッファ４８から順次、一度に１つ到着する。個体ストア／媒体４６システムは、すでに充填された構成要素について非ゼロのアルファで常にクエリされ、したがって、それは、例えば、個体がその位置で最近見られた場合、位置に基づいて数及び特性を予測することができる。しかしながら、システムの可塑性は、位置－数－特性のシーケンスが正常に完了したときにのみ、オンになる。次いで、個体ストア／媒体４６システムは、その学習サイクルを通過し、それが終了すると、しばらくの間そこに留まり、個体を（その古い／新規の状態と共に）エピソードバッファのそれぞれのエージェント／患者バッファにコピーすることを可能にする。
エピソードストア／媒体４７は、ＷＭエピソードを記憶する。エピソードストア／媒体は、個体及びアクションの組み合わせに対して訓練されるＳＯＭ又はＡＳＯＭとして実装することができる。一実施形態では、エピソードストア／媒体は、エピソード要素の固有の組み合わせを記憶するＣＤＺの収束ゾーンである。エピソードストア／媒体４７は、３つの入力フィールド、それぞれのＷＭエピソードスロットから入力を取るエージェント、患者、及びアクションを有するＡＳＯＭとして実装することができる。入力フィールドの混合係数（アルファ）は、入力フィールドの入力が正常に処理されたときにのみ、非ゼロである。これは、入力フィールドが徐々に充填されると、ＡＳＯＭが残りの入力フィールドに関する予測、例えば、どのエピソードにこのエージェントが典型的に関与するか、を送達することを意味する。
個体バッファ４８は、個体の属性を順次取得する。シーケンスが終了すると（全てのバッファの保持ゲートが閉じられている）、エピソードストア／媒体４７の可塑性は、オンになり、エピソードストア／媒体４７は、位置、数、及び特性のこの特定の組み合わせを新しい個体として記憶する（又は再び注意を向けられたものを更新する）ことができる。エピソードストア／媒体４７がその処理を終了すると、サイクル全体が再び開始する。
エピソードバッファは、エピソードの要素を順次取得する。エピソードストア／媒体システムの可塑性は、エピソードシーケンスが正常に終了したとき／場合のみ、オンになる。これにより、注意機構が誤ったエピソード参加者を推測する場合に、正しくない表現が学習されないことを確実にする。
強化学習構成要素
知覚されたエピソードがエージェントに特定の報酬をもたらした場合、それは、追加の入力フィールドとしてエピソードストア／媒体４７のエピソードに関連付けることができる。エピソードの知覚の間、報酬に対するゼロＡＳＯＭアルファ重みを有するエピソードストア／媒体４７は、現在知覚されているエピソードに関連付けられた予想される報酬の予測をもたらす。アクション実行中、報酬入力を使用して、報酬の特定の値に関連付けられたエピソードを優先的にアクティブ化するために媒体をプライミングすることができる。
感情
知覚されたエピソードが特定の感じられた感情又は情動値と接続された場合、それは、追加の入力フィールドとしてエピソードストア／媒体４７のエピソードに関連付けることができる。エピソードの知覚の間、感情に対するゼロＡＳＯＭアルファ重みを有するエピソードストア／媒体４７は、予測されるエピソードに関連付けられた感情をもたらす。アクション実行中、情動値を使用して、同様の感情に関連付けられたエピソードを優先的にアクティブ化するために媒体をプライミングすることができる。
具現化されたエージェントの詳細及び変形形態
トップダウン及びボトムアップの神経行動学的モデリング
本発明の実施形態は、出現する挙動の能力がある下位レベルのモデリングを、生物学における基礎知識があまりないが、所与のタスクに対してより速く、かつより効果的である上位レベルの抽象モデルと組み合わせることによって、人工知能を改善する。出現する挙動の能力があるアーキテクチャを有する具現化されたエージェントの例は、また本発明の譲受人に譲渡され、参照により本明細書に組み込まれる、米国特許第１０１８１２１３（Ｂ２）号に開示されている。高度モジュールプログラミング環境により、相互接続された上位レベルの「ブラックボックス」（モジュール１０）を有するトップダウン認知アーキテクチャを可能にする。各「ブラックボックス」は、理想的には、相互接続された生物学的に妥当な下位レベルモデルの集合を含むが、抽象的なルール若しくは論理ステートメント、知識ベース／データベースへのアクセス、会話エンジン、従来の機械学習ニューラルネットワークを使用した入力の処理、又は任意の他の計算技術を容易に含むことができる。各モジュール１２の入力及び出力は、挙動を駆動するために使用することができるモジュールの「変数」（したがって、アニメーションパラメータ）として露出される。コネクタは、モジュール１２間で変数を通信する。その最も単純なものでは、コネクタは、各時間ステップで１つの変数の値を別のモジュール１２にコピーする。これらの上位レベルの記号プロセスは、下位レベル神経回路のモデルから出現する挙動と統合される。出現する挙動は、自然な方法で上位レベルのプロセスと相互作用する。計算を実行する回路は、制御のいかなる中心点もなく、並行して連続的に稼働する。プログラミング環境は、いかなる単一の制御スクリプトもモジュール１２に一連の命令を実行することを可能にしないことによって、この原理をハードコード化することができる。プログラミング環境は、より神経的に妥当な分散機構のセットを介して認知及び挙動の制御をサポートする。
漏れのある積分器は、タイミングを制御する３つの主なパラメータ：ＩＦＣ、ＭＦＣ、及び電圧閾値を有する。タイミングを制御するためにパラメータを修正する場合、最も簡単なものは、ＭＦＣを調整すること、より速い減衰のために増加させることであり、逆も同様である。ＣＤＺの典型的な電圧閾値は、０．１であってもよい。
感情
感情は、経験した又は感じた構成要素及び行動応答が存在する、協調した脳－身体状態としてモデル化される。情動神経科学ベースのアプローチがモデル化され、行動回路が生理学的パラメータによって変調される。生理学的調節は、感覚状態、認知状態、及びモータ状態の相互作用を変化させる。仮想神経伝達物質は、刺激に対する反応で生成され、これは、感情にマッピングして、行動応答をガイドすることができる。例えば、「脅迫的刺激」は、仮想ノルエピネフリン及びコルチゾールの放出をトリガし、これらは、闘争又は闘争応答のためのエネルギーを放出し、恐怖の感覚を引き起こす。（何らかの関数によって評価したときの）微笑む人間の顔又は柔和な声は、仮想オキシトシン及びドーパミンをトリガすることができ、これは、正の結合価状態にマッピングし、幸福などの感情を減少し、微笑む顔の表情を生成し、動揺挙動を低減する。
利点
したがって、リアルタイム学習ネットワークアーキテクチャが提供され、最も卓越した機械学習アルゴリズムがオフラインで学習し、大量のデータを必要とする。エージェントは、（それらの環境と相互作用することによって）それら自体によって学習することができ、（ユーザがそれに特定の刺激を提示することによって）教える、又は（記憶を埋め込むことによって）完全にユーザ制御することができる。アーキテクチャは、異なるタイプの物事を学習することができる、学習のための一般的なアーキテクチャである。
更に、出現する挙動の原因を理解することができるため、リアルタイム学習ネットワークアーキテクチャは、ブラックボックスではない。挙動を引き起こす経路を介して遡ることが可能である。ＳＯＭは、任意の形態の入力、例えば、１ホットベクトル、ＲＧＢ画像、ディープニューラルネットワークからの特徴ベクトル、又はその他のなんでもに対応することができる。更に、アーキテクチャは、階層的に積み重ね可能であり、下位レベルの入力は、統合され、他の関連付け領域と更に統合される。これにより、互いに素なモダリティを間接的に関連させることが可能になり、これにより、複雑な挙動を引き起こすことができる。
本明細書に開示されるようなマップは、エージェントがイベントを柔軟に符号化し、ライブ動作の過程で記憶された情報を取り出すことを可能にする。世界を経験する過程で、記憶に留められたイベントを表すマップが、符号化する新しいイベントと共に提示される。しかし、具現化されたエージェントがこのイベントを経験している間に、この同じマップは、これまで経験したイベントの部分と共に提示され、かつ残りの部分を予測するように求められる、「クエリモード」で使用され、したがって、これらの予測は、感覚運動的プロセスへのトップダウンガイドとして機能することができる。
ＳＯＭは、ＨＴＭタイプシステムを構築する代替的な方法を与えるが、トポグラフィ的に自己編成する利点を有し、したがって、クラスタ情報がより良好である。ＳＯＭは、ゆっくりと、かつオフラインで訓練される必要がある従来のディープネットワークとは異なり、迅速なワンショット学習をサポートする。ＳＯＭは、それらが受信する入力パターンにわたる一般化の学習を容易にサポートする。ＳＯＭは、マップ内の各ニューロンの重みベクトル内にその記憶を記憶することができる。これにより、二重表現が可能になる。ＳＯＭのアクティビティは、複数の選択肢に対して確率分布を表すが、各選択肢のコンテンツは、各ニューロンの重みに記憶され、トップダウンで再構築することができる。
ＡＳＯＭは、異なるソース／モダリティから来る入力を柔軟に関連付け、それらに動的に変更可能な注意／重要性を与えることができる。アクティベーションの流れは、反転させることができる。ＡＳＯＭは、ボトムアップ（入力からアクティベーションに）及びトップダウン（アクティベーションから再構築された入力に）の処理の両方、並びにそれらの組み合わせをサポートする。ＳＯＭは、ノイズの多い入力をノイズ除去する（denoisify）、又は欠落した部分を再構築する、又はプロトタイプ及び入力とプロトタイプとが異なるハイライト部分を返すことができる。これは全て、ＳＯＭの階層の複数のレベルにわたって機能する。
概要
一実施形態では、具現化されたエージェントを生きているように動かす方法であって、第１のモダリティでの経験の第１の表現に対応する感覚入力を受信するステップと、経験記憶ストアにクエリして、第２のモダリティでの経験の第２の表現を取り出すステップと、第２のモダリティでの第２の表現を使用して、具現化されたエージェントを生きているように動かすステップと、を含む、方法。
別の実施形態では、具現化されたエージェントの記憶を記憶するためのシステムであって、具現化されたエージェントの動作の過程で経験された経験から入力された経験記憶ストアであって、各経験が、異なるモダリティでの経験の複数の表現に関連付けられ、経験記憶ストアが、ニューラルネットワークの重みに経験の表現を記憶する、経験記憶ストアと、経験記憶ストアに記憶された経験のコピーを記憶する記憶データベースであって、異なるモダリティでの経験の表現に対応する生データを記憶する、記憶データベースと、を備える、システム。
別の実施形態では、具現化されたエージェントによって経験された経験をエージェントのライブ動作の過程で選択的に記憶する方法であって、複数のモダリティで入力を受信するための複数の入力ストリームからの入力の表現を受信するステップであって、各入力ストリームが、入力ストリームに適格性トレースを作成する少なくとも１つの条件に関連付けられている、ステップと、２つ以上の入力ストリーム（「適格な」入力ストリーム）の同時に起こる適格性トレースを検出するステップと、適格な入力ストリームからの入力の表現を記憶して関連付けるステップと、を含む、方法。
別の実施形態では、各ニューロンが重みベクトル及び訓練記録に関連付けられた、複数のニューロンを含むＳＯＭを訓練する方法であって、入力ベクトルを受信するステップと、入力ベクトルが「新しい」かどうかを判定するステップと、入力ベクトルが新しくない場合、第１の勝利ニューロンを選択し、入力ベクトルと勝利ニューロンとの間のより高い類似性を支持し、第１の勝利ニューロンの重みベクトルを入力ベクトルに向かって修正するステップと、入力ベクトルが新しい場合、第２の勝利ニューロンを選択し、より低い訓練記録を有するニューロンを支持し、第２の勝利ニューロンの重みベクトルを入力ベクトルに向かって修正するステップと、を含む、方法。
別の実施形態では、具現化されたエージェントによって経験された経験をエージェントの動作の過程で選択的に記憶するための方法を実装したシステムであって、複数のモダリティで入力を受信するための複数の入力ストリームからの入力の表現を受信するステップであって、各入力ストリームが、入力ストリームに適格性トレースを作成する少なくとも１つの条件に関連付けられている、ステップと、２つ以上の入力ストリーム（「適格な」入力ストリーム）の同時に起こる適格性トレースを検出するステップと、適格な入力ストリームからの入力の表現を記憶して関連付けるステップと、を含む、システム。

Claims (37)
Hide Dependent 
具現化されたエージェントを生きているように動かす方法であって、
第１のモダリティでの経験の第１の表現に対応する感覚入力を受信するステップと、
経験記憶ストアにクエリして、第２のモダリティでの前記経験の第２の表現を取り出すステップと、
前記第２のモダリティでの前記第２の表現を使用して、前記具現化されたエージェントを生きているように動かすステップと、
を含む、方法。
前記経験記憶ストアが、ニューラルネットワーク重みに前記経験の表現を記憶する、請求項１に記載の方法。
前記具現化されたエージェントが、神経行動学的モデルを使用して生きているように動かされる、請求項１に記載の方法。
前記経験記憶ストア内の経験が、前記具現化されたエージェントのライブ動作の過程で前記具現化されたエージェントによって以前に経験された経験を含む、請求項１に記載の方法。
前記複数のモダリティが、視覚、オーディオ、タッチ、モータ、神経化学、又は位置のモダリティを含む群のうちの１つ以上を含む、請求項１に記載の方法。
前記経験記憶ストア内の経験が、オーサリングされた経験を含む、請求項１に記載の方法。
前記第２のモダリティでの前記第２の表現が、前記具現化されたエージェントの内部状態に対応し、前記具現化されたエージェントを前記生きているように動かすことが、前記取り出された内部状態に従って前記具現化されたエージェントの現在の内部状態を修正することによって指示される、請求項１に記載の方法。
前記第２のモダリティでの前記第２の表現が、前記具現化されたエージェントの感情的状態に対応する、請求項７に記載の方法。
前記第２のモダリティでの前記第２の表現が、想起中に前記具現化されたエージェントによって再経験される、請求項２に記載の方法。
前記経験記憶ストアが、ＳＯＭの集合である、請求項１に記載の方法。
前記ＳＯＭが、ＣＤＺとして構成されている、請求項１０に記載の方法。
具現化されたエージェントの記憶を記憶するためのシステムであって、
前記具現化されたエージェントの動作の過程で経験された経験から入力された経験記憶ストアであって、各経験が、異なるモダリティでの前記経験の複数の表現に関連付けられ、前記経験記憶ストアが、ニューラルネットワークの重みに前記経験の表現を記憶する、経験記憶ストアと、
前記経験記憶ストアに記憶された前記経験のコピーを記憶する記憶データベースであって、異なるモダリティでの前記経験の前記表現に対応する生データを記憶する、記憶データベースと、
を備える、システム。
具現化されたエージェントによって経験された経験を前記エージェントのライブ動作の過程で選択的に記憶する方法であって、
複数のモダリティで入力を受信するための複数の入力ストリームからの入力の表現を受信するステップであって、各入力ストリームが、前記入力ストリームに適格性トレースを作成する少なくとも１つの条件に関連付けられている、ステップと、
２つ以上の入力ストリーム（「適格な」入力ストリーム）の同時に起こる適格性トレースを検出するステップと、
前記適格な入力ストリームからの入力の前記表現を記憶して関連付けるステップと、
を含む、方法。
適格性トレースを作成する前記条件が、新規性、重要性、又は強度を含む、請求項１３に記載の方法。
前記複数のモダリティが、視覚、オーディオ、タッチ、モータ、神経化学、又は位置のモダリティを含む群のうちの１つ以上を含む、請求項１３に記載の方法。
記憶システムであって、
最後の統合から経験された記憶を記憶する短期記憶ＳＯＭ（ＳＴＭ）と、
訓練されたアクティブ化するＳＴＭからのデータペアに対して統合中に訓練された、前記最後の統合の前に経験された記憶を記憶する長期記憶構造（ＬＴＭ）と、
を備え、
前記ＬＴＭ及びＳＴＭが、表現空間のマップ表現をカテゴリタイプの共通の１ホット符号化に分類し、
記憶が、前記ＳＴＭ及び前記ＬＴＭに集合的かつ選言的に記憶される、
記憶システム。
カテゴリタイプが、オブジェクトタイプである、請求項１６に記載の記憶システム。
各ニューロンが重みベクトル及び訓練記録に関連付けられた、複数のニューロンを含むＳＯＭを訓練する方法であって、
入力ベクトルを受信するステップと、
前記入力ベクトルが「新しい」かどうかを判定するステップと、
前記入力ベクトルが新しくない場合、
第１の勝利ニューロンを選択し、前記入力ベクトルと前記勝利ニューロンとの間のより高い類似性を支持し、前記第１の勝利ニューロンの前記重みベクトルを前記入力ベクトルに向かって修正するステップと、
前記入力ベクトルが新しい場合、
第２の勝利ニューロンを選択し、より低い訓練記録を有するニューロンを支持し、前記第２の勝利ニューロンの前記重みベクトルを前記入力ベクトルに向かって修正するステップと、
を含む、方法。
入力ベクトルが新しいかどうかを判定するステップが、
第１の勝利ニューロンを判定し、前記入力ベクトル及び前記勝利ニューロンのより高い類似性を支持するステップと、
前記入力ベクトルと前記第１の勝利ニューロンとの間の一致品質を判定するステップと、
前記一致品質が一致品質閾値を下回る場合、前記入力ベクトルを新しいとして判定するステップと、
を含む、請求項１８に記載の方法。
一致品質が、前記入力ベクトルに応じて、前記第１の勝利ニューロンのアクティベーションとして判定される、請求項１９に記載の方法。
前記入力ベクトルが新しくない場合、前記第１の勝利ニューロンのアクティビティに従って、前記ＳＯＭの学習頻度を調整する、請求項１９に記載の方法。
第２の勝利ニューロンを選択するステップが、より低い訓練記録を有するニューロン、及び前記入力ベクトルと前記勝利ニューロンとの間のより高い類似性を支持するステップを含む、請求項１９に記載の方法。
より低い訓練記録を有するニューロンを支持するステップが、前記ＳＯＭのそれぞれのニューロンが受けた訓練の量に反比例するマスク値を有するアクティベーションマスクを適用することによって達成される、請求項２２に記載の方法。
前記訓練記録が、重みであり、前記訓練記録の値が、前記訓練記録の関連付けられたニューロンが受けた訓練の前記量に比例する、請求項１８に記載の方法。
第２の勝利ニューロンを選択する前に、前記入力ベクトルに対する前記ＳＯＭの前記アクティベーションマップにランダムノイズを追加するステップを含む、請求項１９に記載の方法。
ニューロンの前記訓練記録が、ＳＯＭ訓練及び／又は時間に伴って減衰するように構成されている、請求項１９に記載の方法。
各ニューロンが重みベクトルに関連付けられた、複数のニューロンを含むＳＯＭにおける的を絞った忘却の方法であって、
複数のマスク値を有するリセットマスクを作成するステップであって、各マスク値が、前記ＳＯＭのニューロンに関連付けられている、ステップと、
非ゼロマスク値に関連付けられた前記ＳＯＭの各ニューロンにリセット関数を適用するステップであって、前記リセット関数が、
前記ニューロンの重みを訓練されていない状態にリセットするための忘却成分と、
前記忘却成分及び前記マスク値の関数として前記リセット関数の出力を修正するためのマスク成分と、
を含む、ステップと、
前記リセット関数の前記出力に従って、ＳＯＭニューロン重みベクトルを修正するステップと、
を含む、方法。
前記忘却成分が、ランダムノイズを生成する、請求項２７に記載の方法。
前記リセットマスクを作成する前記ステップが、前記リセットマスクの各マスク値について、
前記入力ベクトルと前記マスク値の関連付けられたニューロンとの間の類似性を判定するステップと、
前記類似性がリセット閾値を上回るかどうかを判定するステップと、
前記類似性が前記リセット閾値を上回る場合、前記マスク値を１に設定し、そうでなければ、前記類似性が前記リセット閾値を上回らない場合、前記マスク値を０に設定する、ステップと、
を含む、入力ベクトルに関連付けられた記憶の的を絞った忘却の請求項３６に記載の方法。
前記ＳＯＭが、確率的ＳＯＭであり、各ニューロンのアクティビティが、確率空間までの距離をマッピングするアクティベーション関数を使用して判定され、ニューロンの重みが、ニューロンアクティビティに従って更新される、請求項３６に記載の方法。
前記入力ベクトルを前記ＳＯＭへの入力として提供するステップと、前記ＳＯＭの前記アクティベーションマップに従って前記リセットマスクを設定するステップと、を含む、入力ベクトルに関連付けられた記憶の的を絞った忘却の請求項３０に記載の方法。
各ニューロンが、訓練記録に関連付けられている、請求項３６に記載の方法。
前記リセットマスクが、前記訓練記録の逆数に設定されている、まれにしかない記憶の的を絞った忘却の請求項３２に記載の方法。
各ニューロンの前記訓練記録を経時的に摩滅させるステップと、
前記リセットマスクを前記訓練記録の前記逆数に設定するステップと、
を含む、忘却閾値より古い記憶の的を絞った忘却の請求項３２に記載の方法。
前記リセットマスクを作成する前記ステップが、前記リセットマスクの各マスク値について、
前記マスク値の関連付けられたニューロンの前記訓練記録がリセット閾値を下回るかどうかを判定するステップと、
前記訓練記録が前記リセット閾値を下回る場合、前記マスク値を１に設定し、そうでなければ、前記訓練記録が前記リセット閾値を上回らない場合、前記マスク値を０に設定する、ステップと、
を含む、請求項３２に記載の方法。
具現化されたエージェントの挙動を指示するための方法を実装したシステムであって、前記方法が、
第１のモダリティでの経験の第１の表現に対応する感覚入力を受信するステップと、
経験記憶ストアにクエリして、第２のモダリティでの前記経験の第２の表現を取り出すステップと、
前記第２のモダリティでの前記第２の表現を使用して、前記具現化されたエージェントの前記挙動を指示するステップと、
を含む、システム。
具現化されたエージェントによって経験された経験を前記エージェントの動作の過程で選択的に記憶するための方法を実装したシステムであって、
複数のモダリティで入力を受信するための複数の入力ストリームからの入力の表現を受信するステップであって、各入力ストリームが、前記入力ストリームに適格性トレースを作成する少なくとも１つの条件に関連付けられている、ステップと、
２つ以上の入力ストリーム（「適格な」入力ストリーム）の同時に起こる適格性トレースを検出するステップと、
前記適格な入力ストリームからの入力の前記表現を記憶して関連付けるステップと、
を含む、システム。

US11636347B2：

Description
BACKGROUND
This specification relates to processing data using machine learning models.
Machine learning models receive an input and generate an output, e.g., a predicted output, based on the received input. Some machine learning models are parametric models and generate the output based on the received input and on values of the parameters of the model.
Some machine learning models are deep models that employ multiple layers of models to generate an output for a received input. For example, a deep neural network is a deep machine learning model that includes an output layer and one or more hidden layers that each apply a non-linear transformation to a received input to generate an output.
SUMMARY
This specification describes a system implemented as computer programs on one or more computers in one or more locations that selects actions to be performed by an agent interacting with an environment to enable the agent to efficiently explore the environment.
According to a first aspect there is provided a method performed by one or more data processing apparatus for selecting actions to be performed by an agent interacting with an environment. The method includes obtaining a graph of nodes and edges that represents an interaction history of the agent with the environment. Each node in the graph represents a possible state of the environment, each edge in the graph connects a respective pair of nodes in the graph, and an edge in the graph connects a pair of nodes in the graph only if the state of the environment can transition from one of the nodes in the pair of nodes to the other node in the pair of nodes. An encoded representation of the graph representing the interaction history of the agent with the environment is generated. An input based on (and/or comprising) the encoded representation of the graph is processed using an action selection neural network, in accordance with current values of action selection neural network parameters, to generate an action selection output. An action is selected from a set of possible actions to be performed by the agent using the action selection output generated by the action selection neural network.
In some implementations, the method further includes identifying one or more new states of the environment, where: (i) the state of the environment transitions into the one or more new states as a result of the agent performing the selected action, and (ii) the state of the environment did not previously transition into any of the new states as a result of the agent performing previously selected actions during the interaction of the agent with the environment. A reward is determined based on the new states of the environment. The current values of the action selection neural network parameters are adjusted based on the reward using a reinforcement learning technique.
In some implementations, determining the reward based on the new states of the environment includes determining the reward based on the number of new states of the environment.
In some implementations, the reinforcement learning technique is an actor-critic reinforcement learning technique.
In some implementations, each node in the graph that represents the interaction history of the agent with the environment corresponds to a state of the environment that the environment previously transitioned into as a result of the agent performing previously selected actions during the interaction of the agent with the environment.
In some implementations, each edge in the graph connects a pair of nodes in the graph only if the state of the environment previously transitioned from one of the nodes in the pair of nodes to the other node in the pair of nodes as a result of the agent performing previously selected actions during the interaction of the agent with the environment.
In some implementations, the environment is a software environment, each state of the software environment corresponds to a respective state of a user interface of the software environment, and the action selected to be performed by the agent defines a particular interaction with the user interface of the software environment.
In some implementations, the environment is a real-world environment, each state of the real-world environment corresponds to a respective spatial position in the real-world environment, the agent is a robotic agent interacting with the real-world environment, and the action selected to be performed by the agent defines a physical action that causes the agent to move in the real-world environment.
In some implementations, the nodes in the graph that represents the interaction history of the agent with the environment represent every possible state of the environment; and each node in the graph is associated with data that indicates whether the environment previously transitioned into the state represented by the node as a result of the agent performing previously selected actions during the interaction of the agent with the environment.
In some implementations, the environment is a software environment defined by a set of program code, each state of the software environment corresponds to execution of a respective element of the set of program code, and the action selected to be performed by the agent defines an input to be provided to the software environment.
In some implementations, the software environment defines a user interface.
In some implementations, generating an encoded representation of the graph representing the interaction history of the agent with the environment includes processing the graph using a graph neural network to generate the encoded representation of the graph.
In some implementations, processing the graph using a graph neural network to generate the encoded representation of the graph includes: generating a respective encoded representation of each node of the graph; and combining the respective encoded representation of each node of graph to generate the encoded representation of the graph.
In some implementations, combining the respective encoded representation of each node of the graph includes summing the respective encoded representations of each node of the graph.
In some implementations, summing the respective encoded representations of each node of the graph includes: determining a respective weight factor for the encoded representation of each node of the graph; and scaling the encoded representation of each node of the graph using the corresponding weight factor prior to summing the respective encoded representations of each node of the graph.
In some implementations, generating a respective encoded representation of each node of the graph includes updating an encoded representation of each node of the graph at each of multiple iterations. At each iteration after a first iteration of the multiple iterations, the method may include, for each given node of the graph, updating the encoded representation of the node at the current iteration based on the encoded representations of a set of neighboring nodes of the given node in the graph at a previous iteration in accordance with values of graph neural network parameters. The set of neighboring nodes of the given node in the graph includes: (i) the given node, and (ii) each other node in the graph that is connected to the given node by an edge of the graph. The encoded representation of each node of the graph is determined as the encoded representation of the node after a last iteration of the multiple iterations.
In some implementations, the method further includes determining an encoded representation of each node of the graph at the first iteration of the multiple iterations based on characteristics of the state of the environment represented by the node.
In some implementations, the graph neural network is trained using an unsupervised link prediction objective.
In some implementations, the action selection neural network is a recurrent neural network.
In some implementations, the action selection output defines a respective value for each action of multiple possible actions.
In some implementations, selecting the action to be performed by the agent using the action selection output includes sampling the action in accordance with probabilities for each of the actions which are the respective values for the actions defined by the action selection output.
In some implementations, selecting the action to be performed by the agent using the action selection output includes selecting the action with the highest value.
In some implementations, the current values of the action selection neural network parameters are determined during interaction of the agent with a previous environment and are not adjusted during the interaction of the agent with the environment.
In some implementations, the input to the action selection neural network is based on: (i) the encoded representation of the graph, and (ii) encoded representations of one or more previous graphs, where each previous graph represents an interaction history of the agent with the environment as of a respective previous time step.
In some implementations, the method further includes using a recurrent neural network to process an input including: (i) the encoded representation of the graph, and (ii) an output of the recurrent neural network at a previous time step, to generate a recurrent neural network output. The input to the action selection neural network includes the recurrent neural network output.
According to a second aspect there is provided a system including one or more computers and one or more storage devices storing instructions that when executed by the one or more computers cause the one or more computers to perform operations including the operations of the method of the first aspect.
According to a third aspect there is provided a non-transitory computer program product storing instructions that when executed by one or more computers cause the one or more computers to perform operations including the operations of the method of the first aspect.
Particular embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented so as to realize one or more of the following advantages.
The exploration system described in this specification can be trained using reinforcement learning techniques to select actions that cause an agent to efficiently explore an environment. The exploration system can select actions to be performed by the agent based on a graph that represents the interaction history of the agent with the environment, for example, by representing which states the agent has already explored in the environment. The exploration system can learn a more effective exploration policy over fewer training iterations by selecting actions based on a graph that represents the interaction history of the agent with the environment than would be possible if it selected actions based on less information (e.g., just the current state of the environment). For example, the exploration system can be trained using rewards that encourage the selection of actions that cause the environment to transition into “new” (i.e., previously unseen) states. In particular, the exploration system may receive a positive reward the first time it causes the state of the environment to transition into a given state, but no reward for any subsequent occasions the environment transitions into the given state. If the exploration system selected actions based on only the current state of the environment, the rewards received by the exploration system would therefore appear to be inconsistent. On the other hand, by processing a graph that represents the interaction history of the agent with the environment, the rewards received by the exploration system appear consistent and therefore enable the exploration system to be trained more effectively.
The exploration system can select the action to be performed by the agent at each time step based on multiple respective graphs representing the interaction history of the agent with the environment as of: (i) the current time step, and (ii) each of one or more previous time steps. That is, the exploration system can select the action to be performed at each time step based on the history of the exploration of the environment by the agent over multiple previous time steps. This may enable more efficient exploration, i.e., by enabling the exploration system to reason more effectively about which actions will result in the environment transitioning into new states.
The exploration system is generalizable, that is, it can be used to select actions that cause an agent to efficiently explore an environment even if the agent was not exposed to the environment during training. Therefore, the exploration system may reduce consumption of computational resources (e.g., memory and computing power) by obviating the need to re-train the action selection network each time the agent interacts with a new environment.
The details of one or more embodiments of the subject matter of this specification are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features, aspects, and advantages of the subject matter will become apparent from the description, the drawings, and the claims.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
FIG. 1 shows an example exploration system.
FIG. 2 illustrates examples of interaction history graphs that characterize the exploration of an environment by an agent over multiple time steps.
FIG. 3 illustrates an example of exploring a user interface of a software application using random exploration and using the exploration system.
FIG. 4 is a flow diagram of an example process for selecting an action to be performed by an agent exploring an environment.
FIG. 5 is a flow diagram of an example process for generating an encoded representation of a graph.
Like reference numbers and designations in the various drawings indicate like elements.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
FIG. 1 shows an example exploration system 100. The exploration system 100 is an example of a system implemented as computer programs on one or more computers in one or more locations in which the systems, components, and techniques described below are implemented.
The exploration system 100 selects actions 102 to be performed by an agent 104 interacting with an environment 106 at each of multiple steps. The exploration system 100 is trained to select actions 102 that enable the agent 104 to efficiently explore the environment 106. That is, the exploration system 100 selects actions 102 that are intended to maximize the number of unique states that are transitioned into by the environment 106 over a limited number of time steps.
The exploration system 100 described herein is widely applicable and is not limited to one specific implementation. However, for illustrative purposes, a few example implementations of the exploration system 100 are described next.
In some implementations, the agent may be a software agent, the environment may be a software environment, and each state of the environment may correspond to a respective state of a user interface, e.g., of a software application. Each action performed by the agent may be an action to interact with the user interface, e.g., by selecting interactive elements (e.g., buttons) in the user interface, or by providing alpha-numeric inputs to the user interface (e.g., as from a keyboard). At each time step, the exploration system may select an action that specifies a particular interaction with the user interface, and the user interface may transition into a different state based on the current state of the user interface and the action performed by the agent.
In some implementations, the agent may be a software agent and the environment may be a software environment defined by a set of program code, e.g., expressed in Python, Java, or in any other appropriate manner. The set of program code may be configured to receive and process inputs, e.g., strings of characters or images. Each time the program code processes an input, some elements (e.g., instructions or groups of instructions) of the program code may execute while others may not, i.e., depending on the input. Each state of the software environment may correspond to the execution of a respective element of the program code. At each time step, the exploration system may select an action that specifies an input to be processed to the program code, and the environment may transition into one or more states as one or more corresponding elements of the program code execute during processing of the input.
By performing actions which cause a user interface to transition to as many distinct states as possible, or which cause as many elements of a set of program code to execute as possible, the exploration system 100 increases the likelihood of triggering potential “bugs”. A bug refers to a defect that causes a software environment to behave incorrectly. In this manner, the exploration system 100 can be used to perform software testing, e.g., of a user interface or a set of program code. Once the bug is identified, the software may be modified (automatically and/or by a human operator), thereby providing better software, such as an improved user interface. The user interface is less subject to bugs. Alternatively or additionally it may allow a user to enter data more reliably and/or more quickly and/or with less effort.
In some implementations, the agent may be a mechanical agent (e.g., a robot or an autonomous or semi-autonomous vehicle), the environment may be a real-world environment, and each state of the real-world environment may correspond to a respective spatial position (location and/or configuration) in the real-world environment. “Spatial locations” in a real-world environment may correspond to respective regions of the real-world environment, e.g., specified by a dividing the real-world environment into a predefined grid (or in any other appropriate manner). The state of the environment at the start of each step is measured by a sensor, e.g. a camera or a geo-location sensor. At each time step, the exploration system may select an action that causes the agent to move in the environment (i.e. to move from one spatial location to another spatial position and/or to change its configuration); for example, the actions may specify torques to be applied to the joints of a robot to cause the robot to move. Performing actions which cause the agent to visit as many different spatial positions in the environment as possible may enable the agent to build a map of the environment and acquire information that can be used to perform other tasks more effectively. In this manner, the exploration system 100 can be used by a mechanical agent to explore a real-world environment.
At each time step, the exploration system 100 generates an interaction history graph 108 that represents the interaction history of the agent 104 with the environment, i.e., by representing which states the environment has transitioned into as a result of previous interactions of the agent with the environment. The graph 108 includes a set of nodes and a set of edges, where each node represents a possible state of the environment and each edge connects a respective pairs of nodes in the graph. An edge in the graph 108 connects a pair of nodes only if the environment 106 can transition from the state represented by one of the nodes in the pair to the state represented by the other node in the pair.
In implementations corresponding to exploration in an unknown environment, the graph 108 represents only the states of the environment 106 that have already been explored by the agent 104 as of the current time step. In particular, the graph 108 may include only nodes representing states that the environment has transitioned into at one or more previous time steps, and only edges representing transitions between environment states that have occurred at one or more previous time steps. In one example, the agent may be a mechanical agent exploring an unknown real-world environment, each node may represent a spatial position in the environment that the agent has visited, and each edge may represent previous movement of the agent from one spatial location to another in the environment.
In implementations corresponding to exploration in a known environment, the graph may represent every state of the environment 106 and if so is associated with additional data specifying which states the environment has transitioned into at one or more previous time steps. In particular, the graph 108 may include respective nodes representing every possible state of the environment, and respective features associated with each node that specify whether the environment has transitioned into the state corresponding to the node at one or more previous time steps. In one example, the agent may be a software agent testing a known set of program code, each node may represent an element (e.g., instruction) in the program code, and each node may have an associated feature that specifies whether the corresponding element of the program code has executed at one or more previous time steps.
At the first time step, the exploration system 100 may generate an initial interaction history graph 108 reflecting that the agent has not yet explored the environment 106. In one example, the exploration system 100 may generate an “empty” interaction history graph 108 at the first time step, i.e., a graph without any nodes or edges. In another example, the exploration system 100 may generate an interaction history graph 108 representing every state of the environment, with node features indicating that the environment has not yet transitioned into any of those states.
At each time step after the first time step, the exploration system 100 may generate the interaction history graph 108 for the time step by updating the interaction history graph generated at the previous time step. For example, the exploration system 100 may generate the interaction history graph 108 for the time step by adding an additional node and/or edge to the graph 108 generated at the previous time step based on the one or more states the environment transitioned into at the previous time step.
After generating the interaction history graph 108 for the current time step, the exploration system 100 may process the interaction history graph 108 using a graph neural network 110 to generate an encoded representation 112 of the interaction history graph 108. The encoded representation 112 of the graph 108 may be represented as an ordered collection of numerical values, e.g., a vector or matrix of numerical values. The graph neural network 110 may generate the encoded representation 112 of the graph 108, e.g., by generating an encoded representation of each node of the graph, and combining (e.g., summing) the encoded representations of the nodes. An example process for generating an encoded representation 112 of the interaction history graph 108 is described in more detail with reference to FIG. 5 .
The exploration system 100 uses the encoded representation 112 of the interaction history graph 108 at the current time step to generate an input that is processed by the action selection neural network 114 to generate an action selection output 116. The exploration system 100 uses the action selection output 116 to select the action to be performed by the agent at the time step, as will be described in more detail below.
The exploration system 100 may use the encoded representation 112 of the interaction history graph 108 at the current time step to generate the input to the action selection neural network 114 in any of a variety of ways. A few example techniques for generating the input to the action selection neural network 114 are described in more detail next.
In one example, the exploration system 100 may generate the input to the action selection neural network 114 as:
[f a(a t-1),f g(G t-1)]  (1)
where fa (at-1) is a representation of the action performed at the previous time step, and fg(Gt-1) is the encoded representation 112 of the current interaction history graph 108. The exploration system 100 may generate the representation of the action performed at the previous time step, e.g., as a one-hot encoding of the action, or as the output of an embedding neural network that processes the action.
In another example, the exploration system 100 may generate the input to the action selection neural network 114 based on encoded representations 112 of the interaction history graphs corresponding to: (i) the current time step, and (ii) each of one or more preceding time steps. That is, the exploration system 100 may generate an input to the action selection neural network 114 that characterizes the history of the exploration of the environment by the agent over multiple time steps. In one implementation, the exploration system 100 may generate the input ht to the action selection neural network 114 at each time step as:
h t =R(h t-1 ,f g(G t-1))  (2)
where R(⋅) is a recurrent neural network, e.g., a long short-term memory (LSTM) neural network (e.g. not shown in FIG. 1 but provided in the exploration system 100 between the graph neural network 110 and the action selection neural network 114), ht-1 is the input to the action selection neural network at the previous time step, and fg(Gt-1) is the encoded representation 112 of the current interaction history graph 108. At the first time step, where no previous input to the action selection neural network exists, the exploration system 100 may provide the encoded representation 112 of the current interaction history graph 108 as the input to the action selection neural network 114. Selecting the action to be performed at the current time step based on the history of the exploration of the environment may enable more efficient exploration, i.e., by enabling the action selection neural network to reason more effectively about which actions will result in the environment transitioning into new states.
The exploration system 100 uses the action selection output 116 generated by the action selection neural network 114 to select the action to be performed by the agent 104 at the current time step. A few examples of using the action selection output 116 to select the action to be performed by the agent are described in more detail next.
In one example, the action selection output 116 may include a respective score for each action in a set of possible actions, e.g., possible torques to be applied to the joints of a robotic agent. The exploration system may select the action to be performed by the agent, e.g., as the action with the highest score, or as an action sampled from a probability distribution over the set of possible actions that is defined by the action scores. A probability distribution over the set of possible actions may be defined, e.g., by processing the action scores using a soft-max function.
In another example, the action selection output 116 may include a respective probability distribution over a set of possible tokens at each position in a sequence of multiple positions. The set of possible tokens may be, e.g., a set of alpha-numeric characters, and each action may be in the form of a string of characters that includes a respective character at each of multiple positions. The string of characters may be provided as an input to a set of program code in the context of software testing, as discussed above. The exploration system 100 may sample a respective token at each position starting from the first position using the corresponding probability distribution over the set of possible tokens.
Generally, the action selection neural network may have any appropriate neural network architecture that enables it to perform its described function, e.g., an auto-regressive architecture, a recurrent architecture, or a feed-forward architecture.
A training engine 118 can use reinforcement learning techniques to train the action selection neural network 114 to select actions that cause the agent to efficiently explore the environment. In particular, the training engine 118 can train the action selection neural network 114 to optimize a cumulative measure of rewards (e.g., a time-discounted sum of rewards) received by the agent over the course of its interaction with the environment.
The exploration system 100 may determine the reward at each time step based on the number of new states 120 the environment transitioned into as a result of the action performed by the agent at the time step (i.e., the number of new states the environment transitioned into after the agent performs the action at the time step but before the agent performs the next action at the next time step). A state is referred to as “new” if the environment did not transition into the state at any preceding time step. Training the action selection neural network 114 to optimize a cumulative measure of these rewards encourages the action selection neural network to select actions that cause that cause the environment to transition into as many new states as possible, thereby enabling the agent to efficiently explore the environment. The training engine 118 may train the action selection neural network 114 using any appropriate reinforcement learning training technique, e.g., an actor-critic reinforcement learning technique.
In some implementations, the exploration system 100 may be configured to select actions to enable the agent to interact with the environment for only a finite, predefined number of time steps, e.g., 100 time steps, 1000 time steps, or any other appropriate number of time steps. The predefined number of time steps may represent a “budget”, e.g., of time or computational resources, that can be devoted to exploring the environment. In these implementations, the action selection neural network 114 may maintain a different set of parameter values corresponding to each time step, and may generate the action selection output at each time step using the corresponding set of parameter values. During training, the set of parameter values corresponding to each time step may be updated independently of the sets of parameter values corresponding to the other time steps.
The training engine 118 may train the graph neural network 110, e.g., by backpropagating gradients through the action selection neural network into the graph neural network 110. Alternatively or in combination, the training engine 118 may train the graph neural network 110 to optimize an “unsupervised link prediction” objective, as will be described in more detail with reference to FIG. 5 .
The training engine 118 may train the exploration system 100 on interactions of the agent with one or more “training” environments to learn a generalizable action selection policy that can select actions that enable efficient exploration in one or more previously unseen environments. In particular, the exploration system may select actions that enable the agent to efficiently explore the previously unseen environments without being further trained on interactions of the agent with the previously unseen environments. In one example, in the setting of using the exploration system to perform software testing by exploring user interfaces of software applications, the training engine 118 may train the exploration system 100 on interactions of the agent with a limited number of “training” software applications. Thereafter, the exploration system 100 can be deployed to efficiently explore the user interfaces of previously unseen software applications without further training.
FIG. 2 illustrates examples of interaction history graphs that characterize the exploration of an environment by an agent over multiple time steps. Each node in the graph represents a possible state of the environment, and each edge represents a possible transition between respective states of the environment. The graphs 202, 204, 206, and 208, respectively correspond to time steps T=1, T=2, T=3, and T=4. For each graph, the dark node represents the current state of the environment at the time step, hatched nodes represent environment states that have been visited at a previous time step, and unshaded nodes represent environment states that the environment has not transitioned into as of the time step. The exploration system described in this specification selects the action to be performed by the agent at each time step by processing an encoded representation of the interaction history graph at the time step, and optionally, for one or more previous time steps, as described with reference to FIG. 1 .
FIG. 3 illustrates an example of exploring a user interface of a software application using random exploration (302) and using the exploration system described in this specification (304). Each node in the graph represents a distinct “screen” in the user interface of the software application, and edge in the graph represents a possible transition between screens in the user interface. The node with a plus sign (i.e., “+”) indicates the node from which exploration starts; for each other node, the shade of the node represents the number of times the graphical user interface transitions into the state corresponding to the node, with darker shades indicating larger numbers of transitions. It can be appreciated that the random exploration technique becomes stuck in a local neighborhood of the graph and repeatedly revisits certain nodes large numbers of times, while the exploration system described in this specification succeeds in visiting most nodes in the graph at least once.
FIG. 4 is a flow diagram of an example process 400 for selecting an action to be performed by an agent exploring an environment. For convenience, the process 400 will be described as being performed by a system of one or more computers located in one or more locations. For example, an exploration system, e.g., the exploration system 100 of FIG. 1 , appropriately programmed in accordance with this specification, can perform the process 400.
The system obtains a graph that represents an interaction history of the agent with the environment (402).
The system generates an encoded representation of the graph representing the interaction history of the agent with the environment (404).
The system processes an input based on the encoded representation of the graph using an action selection neural network to generate an action selection output (406).
The system selects an action from a set of possible actions to be performed by the agent using the action selection output generated by the action selection neural network (408).
FIG. 5 is a flow diagram of an example process 500 for generating an encoded representation of a graph, e.g., an interaction history graph, as described with reference to FIG. 1 . For convenience, the process 500 will be described as being performed by a system of one or more computers located in one or more locations. For example, an exploration system, e.g., the graph neural network 110 of the exploration system 100 of FIG. 1 , appropriately programmed in accordance with this specification, can perform the process 500.
The system generates an initial encoded representation of each node of the graph (502). The encoded representation of a node in the graph is a representation of the node as an ordered collection of numerical values, e.g., a vector or matrix of numerical values. The system may generate the initial encoded representation of each node based on characteristics of the environment state corresponding to the node. For example, if each environment state corresponds to a respective state of a graphical user interface of a software application, the system may generate the initial encoded representation of each state by processing an image depicting the state of the graphical user interface using one or more embedding neural network layers.
Optionally (e.g., in the case of a graph that represents every state of a known environment), the initial encoded representation of each node may include data (e.g., a binary variable) specifying whether the environment has transitioned into the state corresponding to the node at a previous time step.
The system iteratively updates the encoded representations of the nodes of the graph over multiple update iterations (504). In particular, at each update iteration, the system may update the current encoded representation of each given node of the graph based on the current encoded representations of a set of neighboring nodes of the given node in the graph. The set of neighboring nodes for a given node may include: (i) the given node, and (ii) each other node in the graph that is connected to the given node by an edge.
In one example, the system may determine the encoded representations {μv (l+1)}vϵV at iteration (l+1), where V is the set of nodes and each v indexes a respective node, as:
m v (l+1)=Aggregate(
Figure US11636347-20230425-P00001
,kϵ1,2, . . . ,K)  (3)
μv (l+1)=GRU(μv (l) ,m v (l+1))  (4)
where MLP(⋅) represents a fully-connected neural network layer, Aggregate(⋅) may represent, e.g., a sum, mean, or max aggregation operation, GRU(⋅) represents a gated recurrent unit neural network block, K is a predefined positive integer value, and Nk(v) represents the set of nodes that are connected to the node v by a path of length less than or equal to k in the graph. The path length between two nodes in a graph refers to the number of edges that separate the two nodes.
The number of update iterations L (l=0, . . . , L−1) may be predefined; for example, the system may update the encoded representations of the nodes over 5 update iterations, 10 update iterations, or any other appropriate number of update iterations.
The system combines the encoded representations of the nodes of the graph after the final update iteration to generate the encoded representation of the graph (506). In one example, the system may generate the encoded representation of the graph fg(G) by summing the encoded representations of the nodes of the graph. In another example, the system may generate the encoded representation of the graph fg(G) as a weighted linear combination of the encoded representations of the nodes of the graph, e.g., as:
f
ℊ
⁡
(
G
)
=
∑
v
∈
V
⁢
α
v
·
μ
v
(
L
)
(
5
)

where V is the set of nodes, each v indexes a respective node, each av is a scalar weighting factor corresponding to a respective node, and each μv (L) is the encoded representation of a corresponding node after a final update iteration (as described with reference to step 504). The system may determine each scalar weighting factor av as:
α
v
=
exp
⁡
(
W
T
⁢
μ
v
(
L
)
)
Σ
u
∈
v
⁢
exp
⁡
(
W
T
⁢
μ
u
(
L
)
)
(
6
)

where W is a learned weight matrix. In another example, the system may generate the encoded representation of the graph by sequentially processing the encoded representations of the nodes using a recurrent neural network, and identifying the output of the recurrent neural network after processing the encoded representation of the last node as the encoded representation of the graph.
The parameters of the graph neural network used to generate the encoded representation of the graph (e.g., including the parameters of the fully-connected layer MLP(⋅) and the gated recurrent unit neural network block GRU(⋅) described with reference to equations (3)-(4), and the learned weight matrix W described with reference to equation (6)), may be trained by backpropagating gradients of a reinforcement learning objective function through the action selection neural network, as described with reference to FIG. 1 . Alternatively or in combination, the parameters of the graph neural network may be trained to optimize an unsupervised link prediction objective given by:
∑
i
,
j
∈
V
⁢
(
A
i
,
j
-
μ
i
(
L
)
T
⁢
X
⁢
μ
j
(
L
)
)
2
(
7
)

where V is the set of nodes of the graph, i and j index respective nodes, Ai,j indicates whether node i is connected to node j by an edge, X is a learned weight matrix, μi (L) is the encoded representation corresponding to node i after the final update iteration, and μj (L) is the encoded representation corresponding to node j after the final update iteration. In one example, the graph neural network may be trained for one or more initial training iterations using the unsupervised link prediction objective (e.g., to effectively initialize the parameter values), and thereafter trained by backpropagating gradients of the reinforcement learning objective function through the graph neural network. Training the graph neural network to optimize the unsupervised link prediction objective encourages the graph neural network to generate encoded representations of nodes that capture structural information from the graph.
This specification uses the term “configured” in connection with systems and computer program components. For a system of one or more computers to be configured to perform particular operations or actions means that the system has installed on it software, firmware, hardware, or a combination of them that in operation cause the system to perform the operations or actions. For one or more computer programs to be configured to perform particular operations or actions means that the one or more programs include instructions that, when executed by data processing apparatus, cause the apparatus to perform the operations or actions.
Embodiments of the subject matter and the functional operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry, in tangibly-embodied computer software or firmware, in computer hardware, including the structures disclosed in this specification and their structural equivalents, or in combinations of one or more of them. Embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented as one or more computer programs, i.e., one or more modules of computer program instructions encoded on a tangible non-transitory storage medium for execution by, or to control the operation of, data processing apparatus. The computer storage medium can be a machine-readable storage device, a machine-readable storage substrate, a random or serial access memory device, or a combination of one or more of them. Alternatively or in addition, the program instructions can be encoded on an artificially-generated propagated signal, e.g., a machine-generated electrical, optical, or electromagnetic signal, that is generated to encode information for transmission to suitable receiver apparatus for execution by a data processing apparatus.
The term “data processing apparatus” refers to data processing hardware and encompasses all kinds of apparatus, devices, and machines for processing data, including by way of example a programmable processor, a computer, or multiple processors or computers. The apparatus can also be, or further include, special purpose logic circuitry, e.g., an FPGA (field programmable gate array) or an ASIC (application-specific integrated circuit). The apparatus can optionally include, in addition to hardware, code that creates an execution environment for computer programs, e.g., code that constitutes processor firmware, a protocol stack, a database management system, an operating system, or a combination of one or more of them.
A computer program, which may also be referred to or described as a program, software, a software application, an app, a module, a software module, a script, or code, can be written in any form of programming language, including compiled or interpreted languages, or declarative or procedural languages; and it can be deployed in any form, including as a stand-alone program or as a module, component, subroutine, or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A program may, but need not, correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data, e.g., one or more scripts stored in a markup language document, in a single file dedicated to the program in question, or in multiple coordinated files, e.g., files that store one or more modules, sub-programs, or portions of code. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a data communication network.
In this specification the term “engine” is used broadly to refer to a software-based system, subsystem, or process that is programmed to perform one or more specific functions. Generally, an engine will be implemented as one or more software modules or components, installed on one or more computers in one or more locations. In some cases, one or more computers will be dedicated to a particular engine; in other cases, multiple engines can be installed and running on the same computer or computers.
The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable computers executing one or more computer programs to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by special purpose logic circuitry, e.g., an FPGA or an ASIC, or by a combination of special purpose logic circuitry and one or more programmed computers.
Computers suitable for the execution of a computer program can be based on general or special purpose microprocessors or both, or any other kind of central processing unit. Generally, a central processing unit will receive instructions and data from a read-only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a central processing unit for performing or executing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. The central processing unit and the memory can be supplemented by, or incorporated in, special purpose logic circuitry. Generally, a computer will also include, or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to, or both, one or more mass storage devices for storing data, e.g., magnetic, magneto-optical disks, or optical disks. However, a computer need not have such devices. Moreover, a computer can be embedded in another device, e.g., a mobile telephone, a personal digital assistant (PDA), a mobile audio or video player, a game console, a Global Positioning System (GPS) receiver, or a portable storage device, e.g., a universal serial bus (USB) flash drive, to name just a few.
Computer-readable media suitable for storing computer program instructions and data include all forms of non-volatile memory, media and memory devices, including by way of example semiconductor memory devices, e.g., EPROM, EEPROM, and flash memory devices; magnetic disks, e.g., internal hard disks or removable disks; magneto-optical disks; and CD-ROM and DVD-ROM disks.
To provide for interaction with a user, embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device, e.g., a CRT (cathode ray tube) or LCD (liquid crystal display) monitor, for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device, e.g., a mouse or a trackball, by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well; for example, feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback, e.g., visual feedback, auditory feedback, or tactile feedback; and input from the user can be received in any form, including acoustic, speech, or tactile input. In addition, a computer can interact with a user by sending documents to and receiving documents from a device that is used by the user; for example, by sending web pages to a web browser on a user's device in response to requests received from the web browser. Also, a computer can interact with a user by sending text messages or other forms of message to a personal device, e.g., a smartphone that is running a messaging application, and receiving responsive messages from the user in return.
Data processing apparatus for implementing machine learning models can also include, for example, special-purpose hardware accelerator units for processing common and compute-intensive parts of machine learning training or production, i.e., inference, workloads.
Machine learning models can be implemented and deployed using a machine learning framework, e.g., a TensorFlow framework, a Microsoft Cognitive Toolkit framework, an Apache Singa framework, or an Apache MXNet framework.
Embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back-end component, e.g., as a data server, or that includes a middleware component, e.g., an application server, or that includes a front-end component, e.g., a client computer having a graphical user interface, a web browser, or an app through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described in this specification, or any combination of one or more such back-end, middleware, or front-end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication, e.g., a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network (LAN) and a wide area network (WAN), e.g., the Internet.
The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client-server relationship to each other. In some embodiments, a server transmits data, e.g., an HTML page, to a user device, e.g., for purposes of displaying data to and receiving user input from a user interacting with the device, which acts as a client. Data generated at the user device, e.g., a result of the user interaction, can be received at the server from the device.
While this specification contains many specific implementation details, these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of any invention or on the scope of what may be claimed, but rather as descriptions of features that may be specific to particular embodiments of particular inventions. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate embodiments can also be implemented in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely, various features that are described in the context of a single embodiment can also be implemented in multiple embodiments separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover, although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially be claimed as such, one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination, and the claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.
Similarly, while operations are depicted in the drawings and recited in the claims in a particular order, this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order, or that all illustrated operations be performed, to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances, multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover, the separation of various system modules and components in the embodiments described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all embodiments, and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.
Particular embodiments of the subject matter have been described. Other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims. For example, the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results. As one example, the processes depicted in the accompanying figures do not necessarily require the particular order shown, or sequential order, to achieve desirable results. In some cases, multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous.
Claims (18)
Hide Dependent 
What is claimed is:
1. A method performed by one or more data processing apparatus for selecting actions to be performed by an agent interacting with an environment, the method comprising:
obtaining data defining an interaction history graph of nodes and edges that represents an interaction history of the agent with the environment, wherein:
each node in the interaction history graph represents a possible state of the environment,
each edge in the interaction history graph connects a respective pair of nodes in the interaction history graph, and
an edge in the interaction history graph connects a pair of nodes in the interaction history graph only if the state of the environment can transition from one of the nodes in the pair of nodes to the other node in the pair of nodes;
processing data defining the interaction history graph representing the interaction history of the agent with the environment using a graph neural network to generate an encoded representation of the interaction history graph, comprising:
obtaining a respective encoded representation of each node in the interaction history graph;
iteratively updating the encoded representations of the nodes in the interaction history graph, over a plurality of update iterations, in accordance with values of a set of graph neural network parameters; and
generating the encoded representation of the interaction history graph by combining the encoded representations of the nodes in the interaction history graph;
processing an input based on the encoded representation of the interaction history graph using an action selection neural network, in accordance with current values of action selection neural network parameters, to generate an action selection output; and
selecting an action from a plurality of possible actions to be performed by the agent using the action selection output generated by the action selection neural network.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
identifying one or more new states of the environment, wherein: (i) the state of the environment transitions into the one or more new states as a result of the agent performing the selected action, and (ii) the state of the environment did not previously transition into any of the new states as a result of the agent performing previously selected actions during the interaction of the agent with the environment;
determining a reward based on the new states of the environment; and
adjusting the current values of the action selection neural network parameters based on the reward using a reinforcement learning technique.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein determining the reward based on the new states of the environment comprises:
determining the reward based on the number of new states of the environment.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein each node in the graph that represents the interaction history of the agent with the environment corresponds to a state of the environment that the environment previously transitioned into as a result of the agent performing previously selected actions during the interaction of the agent with the environment.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein each edge in the graph connects a pair of nodes in the graph only if the state of the environment previously transitioned from one of the nodes in the pair of nodes to the other node in the pair of nodes as a result of the agent performing previously selected actions during the interaction of the agent with the environment.
6. The method of claim 4, wherein the environment is a software environment, each state of the software environment corresponds to a respective state of a user interface of the software environment, and the action selected to be performed by the agent defines a particular interaction with the user interface of the software environment.
7. The method of claim 4, wherein the environment is a real-world environment, each state of the real-world environment corresponds to a respective spatial position in the real-world environment, the agent is a robotic agent interacting with the real-world environment, and the action selected to be performed by the agent defines a physical action that causes the agent to move in the real-world environment.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein:
the nodes in the graph that represents the interaction history of the agent with the environment represent every possible state of the environment; and
each node in the graph is associated with data that indicates whether the environment previously transitioned into the state represented by the node as a result of the agent performing previously selected actions during the interaction of the agent with the environment.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the environment is a software environment defined by a set of program code, each state of the software environment corresponds to execution of a respective element of the set of program code, and the action selected to be performed by the agent defines an input to be provided to the software environment.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein combining the encoded representations of the nodes in the interaction history graph comprises summing the encoded representations of the nodes in the interaction history graph.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein summing the encoded representations of the nodes in the interaction history graph comprises:
determining a respective weight factor for the encoded representation of each node in the graph; and
scaling the encoded representation of each node in the graph using the respective weight factor prior to summing the encoded representations of the nodes in the interaction history graph.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein
iteratively updating the encoded representations of the nodes in the interaction history graph over the plurality of update iterations, comprises, at each update iteration after a first iteration of the plurality of update iterations:
for each given node of the graph, updating the encoded representation of the node at the current iteration based on the encoded representations of a set of neighboring nodes of the given node in the graph at a previous iteration in accordance with values of the set of graph neural network parameters,
wherein the set of neighboring nodes of the given node in the graph comprises: (i) the given node, and (ii) each other node in the graph that is connected to the given node by an edge of the graph; and
determining the encoded representation of each node of the interaction history graph as the encoded representation of the node after a last iteration of the plurality of update iterations.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising:
determining the encoded representation of each node of the interaction history graph at the first iteration of the plurality of update iterations based on characteristics of the state of the environment represented by the node.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein the current values of the action selection neural network parameters are determined during interaction of the agent with a previous environment and are not adjusted during the interaction of the agent with the environment.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein the input to the action selection neural network is based on: (i) the encoded representation of the graph, and (ii) encoded representations of one or more previous graphs, wherein each previous graph represents an interaction history of the agent with the environment as of a respective previous time step.
16. The method of claim 15, further comprising:
using a recurrent neural network to process an input comprising: (i) the encoded representation of the graph, and (ii) an output of the recurrent neural network at a previous time step, to generate a recurrent neural network output;
wherein the input to the action selection neural network comprises the recurrent neural network output.
17. A system comprising one or more computers and one or more storage devices storing instructions that when executed by the one or more computers cause the one or more computers to perform operations for selecting actions to be performed by an agent interacting with an environment, the operations comprising:
obtaining data defining an interaction history graph of nodes and edges that represents an interaction history of the agent with the environment, wherein:
each node in the interaction history graph represents a possible state of the environment,
each edge in the interaction history graph connects a respective pair of nodes in the interaction history graph, and
an edge in the interaction history graph connects a pair of nodes in the interaction history graph only if the state of the environment can transition from one of the nodes in the pair of nodes to the other node in the pair of nodes;
processing data defining the interaction history graph representing the interaction history of the agent with the environment using a graph neural network to generate an encoded representation of the interaction history graph, comprising:
obtaining a respective encoded representation of each node in the interaction history graph;
iteratively updating the encoded representations of the nodes in the interaction history graph, over a plurality of update iterations, in accordance with values of a set of graph neural network parameters; and
generating the encoded representation of the interaction history graph by combining the encoded representations of the nodes in the interaction history graph;
processing an input based on the encoded representation of the interaction history graph using an action selection neural network, in accordance with current values of action selection neural network parameters, to generate an action selection output; and
selecting an action from a plurality of possible actions to be performed by the agent using the action selection output generated by the action selection neural network.
18. One or more non-transitory computer storage media storing instructions that when executed by one or more computers cause the one or more computers to perform operations for selecting actions to be performed by an agent interacting with an environment, the operations comprising:
obtaining data defining an interaction history graph of nodes and edges that represents an interaction history of the agent with the environment, wherein:
each node in the interaction history graph represents a possible state of the environment,
each edge in the interaction history graph connects a respective pair of nodes in the interaction history graph, and
an edge in the interaction history graph connects a pair of nodes in the interaction history graph only if the state of the environment can transition from one of the nodes in the pair of nodes to the other node in the pair of nodes;
processing data defining the interaction history graph representing the interaction history of the agent with the environment using a graph neural network to generate an encoded representation of the interaction history graph, comprising:
obtaining a respective encoded representation of each node in the interaction history graph;
iteratively updating the encoded representations of the nodes in the interaction history graph, over a plurality of update iterations, in accordance with values of a set of graph neural network parameters; and
generating the encoded representation of the interaction history graph by combining the encoded representations of the nodes in the interaction history graph;
processing an input based on the encoded representation of the interaction history graph using an action selection neural network, in accordance with current values of action selection neural network parameters, to generate an action selection output; and
selecting an action from a plurality of possible actions to be performed by the agent using the action selection output generated by the action selection neural network.

US20260111245A1：

Description
CROSS REFERENCE(S)
[0001]
The instant application is a nonprovisional of and claim priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 to co-pending and commonly-owned U.S. nonprovisional application No. 63/708,565, filed Nov. 27, 2024, which is hereby expressly incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0002]
The embodiments relate generally to machine learning systems for artificial intelligence (AI) agents, and more specifically to AI agents for performing graphical user interface (GUI) tasks.
BACKGROUND
[0003]
AI conversation agents, commonly known as chatbots or virtual assistants, can be applied to a wide range of practical applications across various industries. In customer service, AI agents can handle user inquiries, provide support, and resolve issues 24/7, improving customer satisfaction and reducing operational costs. In healthcare, AI agents can offer initial consultations, answer health-related questions, and remind patients to take their medications. In the e-commerce sector, AI conversation agents can assist with product recommendations, order tracking, and personalized shopping experiences. In information technology (IT) support, these agents can guide users through troubleshooting steps, helping them resolve software and hardware issues. Specifically, for network hazards, AI conversation agents can diagnose connectivity problems, suggest corrective actions, and provide step-by-step guidance to ensure network security and stability. Their versatility and ability to handle diverse tasks make them valuable tools in enhancing efficiency and user experience in various fields.
[0004]
AI agents often employ a neural network based generative language model to generate an output such as in the form of a text response, or a series actions to complete a complex task, such as to network issue troubleshooting, etc. Such generative language model receives a natural language input in the form of a sequence of tokens, and in turn generates a predicted distribution over a token space conditioned on the input sequence. Generated output tokens over time may in turn form the text response, or actions for completing the task.
[0005]
A class of AI agents is designed to execute graphical user interface (GUI) tasks such as completing form entries across heterogeneous digital platforms including web browsers, desktop applications, and mobile interfaces. However, automating such tasks presents significant technical challenges due to the high variability in GUI layouts, element hierarchies, visual appearances, and interaction modalities across environments. Existing GUI agents frequently depend on structured or textual representations of interface elements (e.g., DOM trees, accessibility layers, or manually defined schemas), limiting their generalizability and effectiveness in unstructured or visually dynamic settings where such representations are unavailable or inconsistent.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0006]
FIG. 1A shows an example operation of a language model based AI agent, according to embodiments of the present disclosure.
[0007]
FIG. 1B is a simplified diagram illustrating an example interaction between the GUI agent and the computing environment, according to embodiments described herein.
[0008]
FIG. 2 is a simplified diagram illustrating a training framework for the GUI agent, according to some embodiments.
[0009]
FIG. 3 is a simplified diagram illustrating a data generation pipeline to generating training data for the training framework shown in FIG. 2 , according to some embodiments.
[0010]
FIG. 4 is a simplified diagram illustrating a computing device implementing the GUI agent described in FIG. 1 , according to some embodiments.
[0011]
FIG. 5 is a simplified diagram illustrating a neural network structure, according to some embodiments.
[0012]
FIG. 6 is a simplified block diagram of a networked system suitable for implementing the GUI agent framework described in FIGS. 1-5 and other embodiments described herein.
[0013]
FIG. 7 is an example logic flow diagram illustrating a method of building a GUI agent to automate tasks across different computing platforms based on the framework shown in FIGS. 1A-6 , according to some embodiments described herein.
[0014]
Embodiments of the disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures, wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0015]
As used herein, the term “network” may comprise any hardware or software-based framework that includes any artificial intelligence network or system, neural network or system and/or any training or learning models implemented thereon or therewith.
[0016]
As used herein, the term “module” may comprise hardware or software-based framework that performs one or more functions. In some embodiments, the module may be implemented on one or more neural networks.
[0017]
As used herein, the term “Transformer” may refer to an architecture of a deep learning model designed to process sequential data, such as text, using a mechanism called self-attention. The Transformer architecture handles an entire input sequence of tokens (such as words, letters, symbols, etc.) in parallel, and often generate an output sequence of tokens sequentially. The Transformer architecture may comprise a stack of Transformer layers, each of which contains a self-attention module to weigh the importance of each token relative to other tokens in the sequence and a feed-forward module to further transform the data. Additional details of how a Transformer neural network model processes input data to generate an output is provided in relation to FIG. 5 .
[0018]
As used herein, the term “Large Language Model” (LLM) may refer to a neural network based deep learning system designed to understand and generate human languages. An LLM may adopt a Transformer architecture that often entails a significant amount of parameters (neural network weights) and computational complexity. For example, LLM such as Generative Pre-trained Transformer (GPT) 3 has 175 billion parameters, Text-to-Text Transfer Transformers (T5) has around 11 billion parameters. An LLM may comprise an architecture of mixed software and/or hardware, e.g., including an application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC) such as a Tensor Processing Unit (TPU).
[0019]
As used herein, the term “generative artificial intelligence (AI)” may refer to an AI system that outputs new content that does not pr-exist in the input to such AI system. The new content may include text, images, music, or code. An LLM is an example generative AI model that generate tokens representing new words, sentences, paragraphs, passages, and/or the like that do not pre-exist in an input of tokens to such LLM. For example, when an LLM generate a text answer to an input question, the text answer contains words and/or sentences that are literally different from those in the input question, and/or carry different semantic meaning from the input question.
[0020]
As used herein, the term “AI agent” may refer to a set of software and/or hardware that processes information from its environment and takes action to achieve specific goals such as executing a task. For example, an AI agent (like a chatbot or virtual assistant) might use an LLM as a component but also integrate tools like web browsing, APIs, databases, and other forms of reasoning to complete tasks.
Overview
[0021]
Graphical User Interfaces (GUIs) constitute the primary interaction layer for software applications across various platforms, including web browsers, desktop environments, and mobile operating systems. A GUI agent is a software-based system built upon a multi-modal AI model, or a vision-language model (VLM), designed to automate interactions with these interfaces by simulating user actions such as clicking, typing, scrolling, or selecting items. These agents are typically used to perform structured tasks in applications without requiring modifications to the underlying software, enabling automation in systems or third-party services.
[0022]
To perform such tasks, a GUI agent may execute three processes: (1) GUI understanding, which involves parsing visual elements in high-resolution and often complex interfaces to identify actionable components such as input fields, buttons, or menus; (2) GUI grounding, which translates natural language or symbolic instructions into references to specific visual elements based on their appearance and context; and (3) GUI planning and reasoning, which uses the current visual state, prior observations, and past actions to determine a sequence of operations that will achieve a specified goal and the reasoning associated with such sequence of operation, e.g., “inner monologue” of the GUI agent.
[0023]
For example, a GUI agent may perform a flight booking operation in response to a user request to book a flight. The GUI agent may interpret a user request, locate and interact with appropriate interface elements on a travel booking website (e.g., entering the destination “Paris” into a text box, selecting a date using a calendar widget, and confirming a selection via a button click), and continue executing a multi-step interaction based on the evolving GUI state.
[0024]
Existing GUI agent may focus on mapping natural language instructions to textual representations of GUIs, such as HTML or accessibility trees. This methodology presents several technical limitations. First, GUIs are inherently visual entities, and image-based representations align more closely with human cognitive processes for interface interpretation. Second, textual representations exhibit significant variation across different environments, complicating model generalization and restricting the availability of consistent training data. Third, these textual representations tend to be verbose and structurally complex, resulting in increased computational overhead and extended inference times compared to more compact image encodings. GUI agents may improve their performance across diverse environments by unifying observations as images and grounding instructions to specific image coordinates.
[0025]
In addition, the action spaces and control APIs for GUI interactions demonstrate substantial variation across different environments (e.g., desktop, web, mobile, etc.), particularly when observations are text-based. This heterogeneity extends to environments within the same platform, where action spaces can differ significantly. Such diversity restricts the quantity of training data available for each specific environment, impeding the development of models capable of effective cross-platform generalization. A unified action space that abstracts these environmental differences represents a critical requirement for developing robust and adaptable GUI agents. While some research has attempted to unify digital agent data across diverse interfaces, these interfaces frequently do not share common interaction logic. In contrast, GUIs across desktop, web, and mobile platforms inherently share similar human-computer interaction patterns, which could potentially facilitate their unification through consistent visual observations and action spaces.
[0026]
Further, existing GUI agents typically either rely on the reasoning capabilities of LLMs to plan GUI task completion or train agents to make direct action decisions through grounding without explicit reasoning processes. This bifurcation results in systems that either lack effective grounding abilities or lack comprehensive reasoning capabilities. Recent approaches attempt to combine closed-source language models with specialized GUI grounding models, communicating via natural language instructions to utilize both capabilities. However, this approach presents two significant limitations: (1) natural language communication between the models frequently results in information loss during transfer, and (2) this approach demonstrates limited scalability for GUI interaction problems. While grounding has approached technical upper bounds through data synthesis techniques, most remaining challenges relate to planning functions. The planning and reasoning capabilities of existing language models remain difficult to enhance for GUI-specific applications.
[0027]
Embodiments described herein provide a unified vision framework for training GUI agents to generate automatic task executions on GUIs based on vision observation and action spaces across diverse environments of GUIs (e.g., desktop browser GUIs, mobile app GUIs, etc.). Specifically, the training framework includes a first stage of visual grounding training a vision-language model (VLM) based on a dataset of image observations, low-level instructions and atomic actions (e.g., mouse/keyboard movements, etc.). The dataset includes basic GUI operations across platforms including web, desktop, and mobile, which trains the VLM to generate actions in order to control GUI without any action space description. The training framework further moves on to a second stage of reasoning training the VLM using a dataset of “inner monologue” (reasoning for a next action) based on previous actions and observations.
[0028]
In one embodiment, a data pipeline that unifies existing GUI grounding annotations and integrates explicit planning and reasoning may be built. This enables the construction of large-scale datasets for grounding and multi-step agent trajectory datasets across platforms for training the GUI agent.
[0029]
In this way, the trained VLM may generate actions to autonomously navigate and interact within complex digital environments while providing a natural language description of reasoning across different platforms. The unified framework effectively addresses the environment heterogeneity challenge by creating a standardized action space that functions across desktop, web, and mobile interfaces. By incorporating basic GUI operations from diverse platforms into a single training dataset, the GUI agent may be trained to generate appropriate actions without requiring environment-specific action space descriptions. This unification significantly enhances cross-platform generalization capabilities and maximizes the utility of available training data, and thus improves training efficiency of GUI agents.
[0030]
FIG. 1A shows an example operation of an LLM based AI agent, according to embodiments of the present disclosure. An LLM-based AI agent 110 may be implemented on a user device 104 to receive a user task request 106 as a natural language input, typically through a chat or command interface 107. This request 106 may range from simple queries to more complex tasks like data analysis, automation, or even generating content. For example, the user 102 may ask the AI agent to “book a flight from SFO to LAX tomorrow evening” 106.
[0031]
In one embodiment, the AI agent 110 may processes the task request 106 at an LLM 120 to understand its intent, extracting key information such as the task type, desired outcome, and any specific constraints in order to generate a response. The LLM 120 may be hosted at an external server, a cloud service, and/or the like that is accessible by a communication network. In a different implementation, the LLM 120 may be hosted on the user device 104. An input to the LLM 120 may comprise the task request 106 and instruction provided to the LLM 120 to guide its behavior or responses in a particular way, referred to as a “system prompt.” The LLM 120 may in turn generate a textual response 108 based on an input combining the task request 106 and any system prompt. Additional details on the LLM 120 generating output tokens to form the response 108 may be described in FIG. 5 .
[0032]
The textual response 108 may include instructions, explanations, or direct actions to address the task request 106. Such textual response 108 is displayed via the AI agent interface 107 for transparency. In addition to the textual response 108 that describes how to fulfill the task request, the LLM 120 may generate computer-executable commands (e.g., system-level commands, Python scripts, etc.) that can directly trigger actions and/or interactions with the computing environment 109 on the user device 104.
[0033]
In some implementations, the AI agent may further adopt a multimodal vision-language module 125, which may be a separate model, or be integrated with LLM 120. The VLM 125 may receive screenshots from the computing environment 109, e.g., a browser application UI so as to extract textual and visual information from each web page. The VLM 125 may then identify key elements such as input fields, labels, and buttons and generate an output indicating where to fill in the form with what information. For example, the VLM 125 may process visual information (such as screenshots of the UI) and text information (such as user provided user name, date of birth, etc., or retrieved profile information from a browser application, etc.) to generate an output code script that fill in the text information into the right fields on a browser UI.
[0034]
In one implementation, the VLM 125 may comprise an image encoder, such as a vision Transformer, to process input images of arbitrary resolutions by dynamically generating a variable number of visual tokens. To facilitate this functionality, the image encoder may replace absolute position embeddings with two-dimensional rotary position embedding, which captures two-dimensional positional relationships within images. This design allows efficient encoding of high-resolution visuals with reduced image token overhead, making it suitable for GUI agent applications.
[0035]
For example, when the user 102 requests to book a flight, the LLM 120 and the VLM 125 may output a code script to execute on a browser application on the user device 104 to visit a search website, search for flights from the origin to the destination, navigate the webpages to book the flight, and/or interface with APIs of other applications to automate tasks such as adding the flight information to a calendar application, and/or the like.
[0036]
It is noted that the computing environment 109 may include different types of platforms, such as desktop, mobile, browser, and/or other applications. Therefore, the LLM 120 and/or VLM 125 may be trained to generate actions to autonomously navigate and interact within complex digital environments 109, as further illustrated in FIG. 2 .
[0037]
FIG. 1B is a simplified diagram illustrating an example interaction between the GUI agent (e.g., AI agent 110) and the computing environment (e.g., 109), according to embodiments described herein. The interaction between an autonomous GUI agent and its environment can be modeled as a Partially Observable Markov Decision Process (POMDP), defined by the tuple (S, A, O, T, Ω). In this framework, S denotes the set of possible environment states, A is the set of actions available to the agent, and O represents the set of observations the agent can receive. The state transition function T:S×A×S→[0, 1] specifies the probability of transitioning from one state to another, given a particular action. The observation function Ω:S×A×0→[0, 1] defines the probability of receiving a specific observation given a state and an action. This formulation captures the uncertainty and partial observability inherent in GUI-based environments.
[0038]
At each time step t, the GUI agent 110 receives an image observation ot 121 from the GUI environment (e.g., a screenshot, etc.) and generates an inner monologue 124 based on previous actions and observations. The inner monologue 121 consists of three components: a natural language description of the current observation (dt), internal reasoning (ht) derived from the high-level goal G, the observation description de, and the prior reasoning ht-1, and a low-level action instruction (anst) expressed in natural language that specifies the next action. The inner monologue 124 may be displayed at a UI 109 b, which may be part of the computing environment 109, or separately from the computing environment 109. The GUI agent 110 may then generate and execute an action at based on anst, receives a new observation ot+1, and iterates this process until the goal G is achieved or a terminal state is reached.
[0039]
In one embodiment, for observations 121, pure vision eliminates the need to process platform-specific UI source code representations—such as HTML for web or accessibility trees for desktop and mobile—which supports improved generalization across platforms. Additionally, image-based observations reduce input token length compared to structured UI inputs. For example, accessibility trees and HTML can require approximately 6,000 and 4,000 tokens respectively, depending on interface complexity. In contrast, the token cost for image observations is fixed by model configuration, with a 720p input corresponding to approximately 1,200 tokens. In this way, computational overhead for GUI agent 110 to generate a next step action 122 may be significantly reduced.
[0040]
In one embodiment, the framework unifies the observation and action spaces using image-based observations 121 and pyautogui command-based actions across different platforms such as mobile 119 a, desktop 119 b, web 119 c, and/or the like. For action representation, the framework adopts pyautogui as the standard action space. This Python library allows programmatic simulation of human input (e.g., mouse movements, clicks, and keyboard strokes) and enables the construction of a universal action set for GUI control across web, desktop, and mobile environments. The framework uses these commands to perform basic GUI operations without requiring explicit descriptions of the action space. For example, the pyautogui command-based action space may comprise a set of pre-defined actions of pyautogui.moveTo(x, y), pyautogui.click(x, y), pyautogui.write(‘text’), pyautogui.press(‘enter’), pyautogui.hotkey(‘ctrl’, ‘c’), pyautogui.scroll(200), pyautogui.dragTo(x, y), and/or the like.
[0041]
To handle platform-specific or advanced actions not natively supported by pyautogui, a pluggable action system is introduced. This system supports additional functionalities such as mobile swipes, shortcut-based operations, and communication actions (e.g., submitting responses or terminating tasks). New actions are either aligned with existing pyautogui commands or integrated with detailed descriptions when no direct mapping exists. This design supports extensibility and allows the model to generalize to novel tasks and interfaces. The integration of pure vision observations, a unified command space, and an extensible action interface enables training a single agent model capable of operating across heterogeneous digital environments. Additional example pluggable actions may comprise browser.select option(x, y, value), mobile.swipe(from, to), mobile.home( ), mobile.back( ), mobile.open app(name), terminate(status), answer(text), and/or the like.
[0042]
In one embodiment, an example prompt to the GUI agent 110 to perform an action on a mobile environment may take a form similar to:
You are a GUI agent. You are given a task and a screenshot of the screen. You need to perform a series of pyautogui actions to complete the task.
You have access to the following functions:
- {“name”: “mobile.home”, “description”: “Press the home button”}
- {“name”: “mobile.back”, “description”: “Press the back button”}
- {
“name”: “mobile.long_press”,
“description”: “Long press on the screen”,
“parameters”: {
“type”: “object”,
“properties”: {“x”: {“type”: “number”, “description”: “The
x coordinate of the long press”}, “y”: {“type”: “number”,
“description”: “The y coordinate of the long press”}},
“required”: [“x”, “y”]
}
}
- {
“name”: “mobile.open_app”,
“description”: “Open an app on the device”,
“parameters”: {
“type”: “object”,
“properties”: {“app_name”: {“type”: “string”,
“description”: “The name of the app to open”}},
“required”: [“app_name”]
}
}
- {
“name”: “terminate”,
“description”: “Terminate the current task and report its
completion status”,
“parameters”: {
“type”: “object”,
“properties”: {“status”: {“type”: “string”, “enum”:
[“success”], “description”: “The status of the task”}},
“required”: [“status”]
}
}
-{
“name”: “answer”,
“description”: “Answer a question”, “parameters”: {
“type”: “object”,
“properties”: {“answer”: {“type”: “string”, “description”:
“The answer to the question”}},
“required”: [“answer”]
}
}
[0045]
FIG. 2 is a simplified diagram illustrating a training framework for the GUI agent (e.g., similar to AI agent 110 in FIG. 1 ), according to some embodiments. The GUI agent may be built upon the LLM 120 and/or VLM 125 in FIG. 1 . Two stages of training may be implemented for training the VLM: Grounding Training 210 and Planning & Reasoning Training 220.
[0046]
For example, at stage 1 of Grounding Training 210, the VLM 125 may be trained to interact with objects within a single GUI screenshot, using a dataset 205 of screenshots 221 of GUIs, low-level instructions 222 (e.g., detailed action with intended target, etc.), atomic actions 223 with coordinates, and/or the like. Given a training GUI screenshot as input, the VLM 125 may generate precise (x,y) coordinate pairs indicating where on the screen to execute actions such as clicks, double-clicks, or long presses, action commands indicating what type of action to perform at the identified coordinates, such as CLICK (x,y), TYPE “text string” SCROLL UP/DOWN/LEFT/RIGHT, DRAG FROM (x1,y1) TO (x2,y2), HOVER (x,y), and/or the like. The generated coordinates and/or action commands may then be compared to the ground-truth coordinates and/or actions from the training dataset to compute a gradient for updating the VLM 125.
[0047]
Or additionally, given a textual instruction (e.g., “click the submit button”) from the training dataset, the VLM 125 may identify which visual elements on a screen (buttons, text fields, icons, etc.) correspond to a given textual instruction, determine the precise spatial coordinates of these elements to enable interaction, and/or understanding the relationship between visual elements and their functions within the interface, map natural language commands to specific visual targets that need to be manipulated, and/or the like. The VLM predicted coordinates of the “submit button” and/or the predicted action commands may then be compared with the ground-truth coordinates and action commands from the dataset to compute a gradient for updating the VLM 125.
[0048]
In one embodiment, GUI environments often feature multiple interactable objects within a single screenshot, generating a large volume of grounding data, which can limit training efficiency. Instead, the VLM 125 may be trained with a grounding packing strategy where multiple instruction-action pairs are bundled with a single GUI screenshot image, resulting in a single-image-multiple-turn format for the training data. For example, a screenshot of a browser page of a search engine may be paired with instruction-action sequence for locating the search term field, entering the search term, and pressing the “search” button. The screenshot of the same search engine webpage may be paired with another instruction-action sequence for locating the “video” option, clicking the “video” button,” locating the search term field, entering the search term, and/or the like. This technique allows the VLM 125 to be trained by several grounding examples from one single GUI screenshot, reducing redundant training overhead while retaining a high level of grounding performance. In this way, training efficiency may be significantly accelerated by maximizing the use of each GUI screenshot image without compromising accuracy.
[0049]
In one embodiment, an example training data schema of stage 1 training may take a form similar to:
Prompt
<|im_start|>system
You are a GUI agent. You are given a task and a screenshot of the
screen. You need to perform a series of pyautogui actions to
complete the task.<|im_end|>
<|im_start|>user
<|vision_start|><|image_pad|><|vision_end|>
Please generate the next move according to the ui screenshot,
instruction and previous actions.
Instruction: {overall_goal}
Previous actions: {previous_actions}
<|im_end|>
Generation
<|im_start|>assistant<|recipient|>os
Action: {pyautogui function}
<|diff_marker|>
[0050]
In one embodiment, the trained VLM may proceed to stage 2 training 220 to train the VLM 125 to generate planning & reasoning data. The VLM 125 may be trained to execute multi-step tasks by generating reasoning data (“inner monologue”) through agent trajectories that vary in complexity and environments, encompassing diverse reasoning modes. For example, the training dataset 208 may include GUI trajectories including a high-level instruction 208, image observations 221 (e.g., screenshots of current GUI, an inner monologue 225 of the observation and the reasoning, and low-level instruction 222 (e.g., detailed action with grounded targeted) and atomic actions 223 with coordinates, and/or the like. An example GUI trajectory in response to the user request of “book a flight from New York to London for next Monday” may take a form similar to:
HIGH-LEVEL INSTRUCTION: “Book a flight from New York to London for next Monday”
IMAGE_OBSERVATION: [Screenshot of travel booking website homepage]
INNER_MONOLOGUE: “I can see this is a travel booking website with a search form at the center. There are fields for departure city, destination city, and date selection. I need to first click on the departure city field and enter ‘New York’, then select the destination as ‘London’, and finally set the date to next Monday before searching for flights.”
LOW-LEVEL_INSTRUCTION: “Click on the departure city input field”
ATOMIC_ACTION: CLICK(215,340)
IMAGE_OBSERVATION: [Screenshot showing departure city field active with cursor]
INNER_MONOLOGUE: “The departure field is now active. I need to type ‘New York’ to specify the departure city.”
LOW-LEVEL_INSTRUCTION: “Type ‘New York’ in the departure field”
ATOMIC_ACTION: TYPE (“New York”)
IMAGE_OBSERVATION: [Screenshot showing “New York” entered in departure field]
INNER_MONOLOGUE: “New York has been entered as the departure city. Now I need to click on the destination field to enter London.”
LOW-LEVEL_INSTRUCTION: “Click on the destination city input field”
ATOMIC_ACTION: CLICK(215,395)
[0064]
In this way, the VLM 125 may be trained on the GUI trajectories to learn how to process a high-level task by breaking it down into a sequence of observations, reasoning steps, and precise actions. Each atomic action is grounded to specific coordinates on the screen, while the inner monologue reveals the agent's reasoning process and understanding of the GUI state.
[0065]
For example, during stage 2 training, the VLM 125 may receive a sequence containing the high-level instruction, current screenshot, and action history up to a given point. The VLM 125 may then predict the next components in the trajectory: the inner monologue reasoning and the corresponding atomic action. This process may employ a teacher-forcing methodology where the VLM 125 may generate appropriate reasoning about the visual elements in the screenshot, followed by precise low-level instructions and coordinate-based actions. The training objective may combine multiple loss functions: one comparing predicted inner monologue text and the ground-truth inner monologue reasoning from the training dataset, one loss comparing the predicted coordinates on the GUI screenshot and predicted action types needed to interact with the correct interface elements and the ground-truths from the training dataset. Through iterative exposure to diverse GUI trajectories across different interfaces and tasks, the VLM 125 may be updated.
[0066]
With various training GUI trajectories of varying complexity on different computing platforms, the VLM 125 is trained to be adaptable, fostering step-by-step reasoning and high-level decision-making abilities.
[0067]
In one embodiment, an example training data schema of stage 2 training may take a form similar to:
Prompt
<|im_start|>system
You are a GUI agent. You are given a task and a screenshot of the
screen. You need to perform a series of pyautogui actions to
complete the task.<|im_end|>
<|im_start|>user
<|vision_start|><|image_pad|><|vision_end|>
Please generate the next move according to the ui screenshot,
instruction and previous actions.
Instruction: {overall_goal}
Previous actions: {previous_actions}
<|im_end|>
Generation
<|im_start|>assistant<|recipient|>all
Observation: {Observation}
Thought: {Planning}
Low-level Instruction: {Low-level Instruction}
<|im_end|>
<|im_start|>assistant<|recipient|>os
Action: {pyautogui function}
<|diff_marker|>
[0068]
FIG. 3 is a simplified diagram illustrating a data generation pipeline to generating training data for the training framework shown in FIG. 2 , according to some embodiments. In one embodiment, GUI agent trajectories may be resource-constrained due to significant variations in observation and action spaces across different environments, even within identical platforms. However, as some GUI environments may share similar operational logic and action space, training dataset may be expanded. For example, through grounding split (Table 1) and planning/reasoning split (Table 11), GUI agent trajectories may be augmented into the training data across different computing platforms.
[0069]
In one embodiment, training data of vision-based grounding may be generated via template based augmentation. Vision-based grounding requires the VLM 125 to align natural language intent with precise coordinates on image observations. Multiple datasets containing natural language instructions and corresponding target elements across multiple platforms may be obtained and unified into a standardized pyautogui commands format. Additionally, numerous user interface datasets from diverse platforms contain extensive metadata, including positional information for text elements, icons, and widgets within interfaces may be obtained. This metadata may enable template construction for generating pyautogui actions. Through these templates, grounding data pairs are randomly generated to train the VLM 125 in element localization based on image inputs. This methodical template-based approach significantly expands the available training data scale, providing more comprehensive coverage of potential grounding scenarios across various interface types.
[0070]
In one embodiment, a multi-modal LLM 310 (e.g., GPT-4o) may be used to augment planning and/or reasoning GUI trajectories. For example, high-quality GUI agent trajectories may include a high-level task objective, a sequence of interleaved observations, natural language reasoning steps, and corresponding grounded actions. Existing datasets used for training such GUI agents are generally collected through human annotation and primarily include the task goal, environmental observations, and the final grounded actions. However, many of these datasets do not contain intermediate reasoning or low-level action instructions that articulate how each action was determined. The absence of such reasoning components limits the ability to train agents that can perform chain-of-thought or inner monologue-style planning, which in turn impacts the effectiveness of action sequencing and overall task execution.
[0071]
In one embodiment, a multi-modal LLM 310 may generate inner monologue components for each step within a GUI agent trajectory. For example, at each time step t, the multi-modal LLM 310 is provided with a GUI trajectory 302, e.g., from an existing dataset, including the high-level goal G, the current image observation ot, and the grounded action at. Using this information, the multi-modal LLM 310 may generate the planning/reasoning data 304 including: a natural language description of the observation dt, a reasoning step or thought ht, and a corresponding low-level action instruction ainstrt. To guide the multi-modal LLM's attention toward the relevant region of the interface, a visual cue is applied to the image observation ot by highlighting the interface element associated with the grounded action at. Furthermore, the multi-modal LLM 310 is supplied with a sequence of previous low-level action instructions (ainstr1, ainstr2, . . . , ainstrt-1) to maintain coherence and contextual awareness in the monologue generation process.
[0072]
In one embodiment, the multi-modal LLM 310 may be provided a prompt in generating inner monologue components that are predictive and aligned with task objectives, while avoiding reliance on future actions or hindsight. The prompt may simulate an agent's step-by-step reasoning from a first-person perspective, enabling the generation of intermediate thoughts and low-level instructions based on the high-level goal and current observation. An example prompt used for guiding the multi-modal LLM 310 may take a format similar to:
Goal: {goal}
Previous Actions: {previous_actions}
Given the current screenshot and the next ground truth action
labeled as ‘{current_action_instruction}‘, the action commands is:
‘‘‘json
{action_commands}
‘‘‘
This element is highlighted in red bounding box in the image.
Describe the situation in detail, focusing on the goal and current observation. Ensure your reasoning aligns with the goal and the labeled action, but avoid using the labeled action or the highlighted bounding box as reasoning support, as they represent hindsight rather than predictive insight. Conclude with a clear, actionable instruction in one sentence. Aim to reason through the task as if solving it, rather than simply reflecting on the labeled outcome. Use the first-person perspective to represent the annotator's thought process.
Computer and Network Environment
[0075]
FIG. 4 is a simplified diagram illustrating a computing device implementing the GUI agent described in FIG. 1 , according to one embodiment described herein. As shown in FIG. 4A, computing device 400 includes a processor 410 coupled to memory 420. Operation of computing device 400 is controlled by processor 410. And although computing device 400 is shown with only one processor 410, it is understood that processor 410 may be representative of one or more central processing units, multi-core processors, microprocessors, microcontrollers, digital signal processors, field programmable gate arrays (FPGAs), application specific integrated circuits (ASICs), graphics processing units (GPUs) and/or the like in computing device 400. Computing device 400 may be implemented as a stand-alone subsystem, as a board added to a computing device, and/or as a virtual machine.
[0076]
Memory 420 may be used to store software executed by computing device 400 and/or one or more data structures used during operation of computing device 400. Memory 420 may include one or more types of machine-readable media. Some common forms of machine-readable media may include floppy disk, flexible disk, hard disk, magnetic tape, any other magnetic medium, CD-ROM, any other optical medium, punch cards, paper tape, any other physical medium with patterns of holes, RAM, PROM, EPROM, FLASH-EPROM, any other memory chip or cartridge, and/or any other medium from which a processor or computer is adapted to read.
[0077]
Processor 410 and/or memory 420 may be arranged in any suitable physical arrangement. In some embodiments, processor 410 and/or memory 420 may be implemented on a same board, in a same package (e.g., system-in-package), on a same chip (e.g., system-on-chip), and/or the like. In some embodiments, processor 410 and/or memory 420 may include distributed, virtualized, and/or containerized computing resources. Consistent with such embodiments, processor 410 and/or memory 420 may be located in one or more data centers and/or cloud computing facilities.
[0078]
In another embodiment, processor 410 may comprise multiple microprocessors and/or memory 420 may comprise multiple registers and/or other memory elements such that processor 410 and/or memory 420 may be arranged in the form of a hardware-based neural network, as further described in FIG. 3 .
[0079]
In some examples, memory 420 may include non-transitory, tangible, machine readable media that includes executable code that when run by one or more processors (e.g., processor 410) may cause the one or more processors to perform the methods described in further detail herein. For example, as shown, memory 420 includes instructions for GUI agent module 430 that may be used to implement and/or emulate the systems and models, and/or to implement any of the methods described further herein. GUI agent module 430 may receive input 440 such as an input training data (e.g., sequences of instructions and executions on GUIs) via the data interface 415 and generate an output 450 which may be an execution on a GUI page.
[0080]
The data interface 415 may comprise a communication interface, a user interface (such as a voice input interface, a graphical user interface, and/or the like). For example, the computing device 400 may receive the input 440 (such as a training dataset) from a networked database via a communication interface. Or the computing device 400 may receive the input 440, such as a GUI screenshot, from a user via the user interface.
[0081]
In some embodiments, the GUI agent module 430 is configured to generate a series of GUI executions. The GUI agent module 430 may further include a VLM submodule 431 and/or a data pipeline submodule 432.
[0082]
Some examples of computing devices, such as computing device 400 may include non-transitory, tangible, machine readable media that include executable code that when run by one or more processors (e.g., processor 410) may cause the one or more processors to perform the processes of method. Some common forms of machine-readable media that may include the processes of method are, for example, floppy disk, flexible disk, hard disk, magnetic tape, any other magnetic medium, CD-ROM, any other optical medium, punch cards, paper tape, any other physical medium with patterns of holes, RAM, PROM, EPROM, FLASH-EPROM, any other memory chip or cartridge, and/or any other medium from which a processor or computer is adapted to read.
[0083]
FIG. 5 is a simplified diagram illustrating the neural network structure implementing the GUI agent module 430 described in FIG. 4 , according to some embodiments. In some embodiments, the GUI agent module 430 and/or one or more of its submodules 431-232 may be implemented at least partially via an artificial neural network structure shown in FIG. 4B. The neural network comprises a computing system that is built on a collection of connected units or nodes, referred to as neurons (e.g., 444, 445, 446). Neurons are often connected by edges, and an adjustable weight (e.g., 451, 452) is often associated with the edge. The neurons are often aggregated into layers such that different layers may perform different transformations on the respective input and output transformed input data onto the next layer.
[0084]
For example, the neural network architecture may comprise an input layer 441, one or more hidden layers 442 and an output layer 443. Each layer may comprise a plurality of neurons, and neurons between layers are interconnected according to a specific topology of the neural network topology. The input layer 441 receives the input data (e.g., 440 in FIG. 4A),. The number of nodes (neurons) in the input layer 441 may be determined by the dimensionality of the input data (e.g., the length of a vector of a feature of a GUI representation). Each node in the input layer represents a feature or attribute of the input.
[0085]
The hidden layers 442 are intermediate layers between the input and output layers of a neural network. It is noted that two hidden layers 442 are shown in FIG. 4B for illustrative purpose only, and any number of hidden layers may be utilized in a neural network structure. Hidden layers 442 may extract and transform the input data through a series of weighted computations and activation functions.
[0086]
For example, as discussed in FIG. 4 , the GUI agent module 430 receives an input 440 of a GUI screenshot and transforms the input into an output 450 of a GUI execution. To perform the transformation, each neuron receives input signals, performs a weighted sum of the inputs according to weights assigned to each connection (e.g., 451, 452), and then applies an activation function (e.g., 461, 462, etc.) associated with the respective neuron to the result. The output of the activation function is passed to the next layer of neurons or serves as the final output of the network. The activation function may be the same or different across different layers. Example activation functions include but not limited to Sigmoid, hyperbolic tangent, Rectified Linear Unit (ReLU), Leaky ReLU, Softmax, and/or the like. In this way, after a number of hidden layers, input data received at the input layer 441 is transformed into rather different values indicative data characteristics corresponding to a task that the neural network structure has been designed to perform.
[0087]
The output layer 443 is the final layer of the neural network structure. It produces the network's output or prediction based on the computations performed in the preceding layers (e.g., 441, 442). The number of nodes in the output layer depends on the nature of the task being addressed. For example, in a binary classification problem, the output layer may consist of a single node representing the probability of belonging to one class. In a multi-class classification problem, the output layer may have multiple nodes, each representing the probability of belonging to a specific class.
[0088]
Therefore, the GUI agent module 430 and/or one or more of its submodules 431-232 may comprise the transformative neural network structure of layers of neurons, and weights and activation functions describing the non-linear transformation at each neuron. Such a neural network structure is often implemented on one or more hardware processors 410, such as a graphics processing unit (GPU). An example neural network may be a Transformer based multimodal LLM, and/or the like.
[0089]
In one embodiment, the GUI agent module 430 and its submodules 431-232 may comprise one or more LLMs built upon a Transformer architecture. For example, the Transformer architecture comprises multiple layers, each consisting of self-attention and feedforward neural networks. The self-attention layer transforms a set of input tokens (such as words) into different weights assigned to each token, capturing dependencies and relationships among tokens. The feedforward layers then transform the input tokens, based on the attention weights, represents a high-dimensional embedding of the tokens, capturing various linguistic features and relationships among the tokens. The self-attention and feed-forward operations are iteratively performed through multiple layers of self-attention and feedforward layers, thereby generating an output based on the context of the input tokens. One forward pass for an input tokens to be processed through the multiple layers to generate an output in a Transformer architecture often entail hundreds of teraflops (trillions of floating-point operations) of computation.
[0090]
For example, the Transformer-based architecture may process an input sequence of tokens (e.g., letters, symbols, numbers, signs, words, etc.) using its encoder-decoder architecture (for tasks such as machine translation, etc.) or just the encoder (for classification tasks) or decoder (for generation-only tasks). First, the input sequence may be tokenized and converted into embeddings, which are dense numerical representations, e.g., vectors of values. Positional encodings are added to these embeddings to provide information about the order of tokens.
[0091]
The Transformer encoder, usually consisting of multiple layers, each of which may processes the input using a multi-head self-attention mechanism to capture relationships between tokens and a feed-forward network to transform the information, resulting in encoded representations of the input sequence of tokens.
[0092]
For example, the multi-head self-attention mechanism at each Transformer layer within the Transformer encoder of an LLM may project input embeddings at the layer into three different embedding spaces using weight matrices, referred to as Query (Q) representing what a token wants to attend to, Key (K) representing what this token offers as information and Value (V) representing the actual information carried by the token. The Q K, V matrices contain tunable weights of a Transformer-based language model that are updated during training. Then, the attention mechanism computes attention scores between all tokens in the input sequence using the Q, K and V matrices. The resulting attention scores are then used to generate encoded representations of the input sequence of tokens.
[0093]
Similarly, the Transformer decoder may comprise a symmetric structure with the encoder, consisting of multiple layers, each of which may comprise a multi-head self-attention mechanism. The decoder may start with a special start token and use the multi-head self-attention mechanism, augmented with encoder-decoder attention to focus on relevant parts of the decoder input. The decoder may generate output tokens one by one, with each step using the previously generated tokens as part of the input and updated attention weights. Finally, the decoder may comprise a linear layer and softmax function predict probabilities for the next token in the sequence, selecting the most likely one to continue the output. This process repeats until a special end token is generated or a length limit is reached.
[0094]
The generated sequence of tokens may jointly represent an output. For example, a Transformer-based LLM (such as LLM 110 a-d) may receive a natural language input (such as a question) and generate a natural language output (such as an answer to the question).
[0095]
In one embodiment, the GUI agent module 430 and its submodules 431-232 may be implemented by hardware, software and/or a combination thereof. For example, the GUI agent module 430 and its submodules 431-232 may comprise a specific neural network structure implemented and run on various hardware platforms 460, such as but not limited to CPUs (central processing units), GPUs (graphics processing units), FPGAs (field-programmable gate arrays), Application-Specific Integrated Circuits (ASICs), dedicated AI accelerators like TPUs (tensor processing units), and specialized hardware accelerators designed specifically for the neural network computations described herein, and/or the like. Example specific hardware for neural network structures may include, but not limited to Google Edge TPU, Deep Learning Accelerator (DLA), NVIDIA AI-focused GPUs, and/or the like. The hardware 460 used to implement the neural network structure is specifically configured based on factors such as the complexity of the neural network, the scale of the tasks (e.g., training time, input data scale, size of training dataset, etc.), and the desired performance.
[0096]
For example, to deploy the GUI agent module 430 and its submodules 431-432 and/or any other neural network models such as VLM 125 described in FIGS. 1A-3 onto hardware platform 460, the neural network based modules 430 and its submodules 431-432 may be optimized for deployment by converting it to a suitable format, such as ONNX or TensorRT, to improve performance and compatibility. Next, depending on the size and workload requirements for modules 430 and its submodules 431-432, hardware types may be chosen for deployment, e.g., processing capacity, GPU memory size, and/or the like. Frameworks and drivers for the chosen hardware 460 frameworks and drivers may thus be installed, such as PyTorch, TensorFlow, or CUDA, to support the hardware platform 460. Then, weights and parameters of the GUI agent module 430 and its submodules 431-432 may be loaded to the hardware 460. For large-scale deployments (e.g., with billions of weights for example), distributed computing frameworks may be used to handle model partitioning across multiple devices, e.g., hardware processors such as GPUs may be distributed on multiple devices, each handling a portion of weights of the model and therefore would undertake a portion of computational workload. In some embodiments, the GUI agent module 430 and its submodules 431-432 may be deployed as a service, then they may be integrated with an API endpoint, using tools like Flask, FastAPI, or a cloud platform serverless services, and is accessible by a remote user via a network.
[0097]
In another embodiment, some or all of layers 441, 442, 443 and/or neurons 442, 445, 446, and operations there between such as activations 461, 462, and/or the like, of the GUI agent module 430 and its submodules 431-232 may be realized via one or more ASICs. For example, each neuron 442, 445 and 446 may be a hardware ASIC comprising a register, a microprocessor, and/or an input/output interface. For another example, operations among the neurons and layers may be implemented through an ASIC TPU. For yet another example, some operations among the neurons and layers such as a softmax operation, an activation function (such as a rectified linear unit (ReLU), sigmoid linear unit (SiLU), and/or the like) may be implemented by one or more ASICs.
[0098]
For example, the GUI agent module 430 may generate, by at least one ASIC (such as a TPU, etc.) performing a multiplicative and/or accumulative operation for a neural network language model, a next token based at least in prat on previously generated tokens, and in turn generate a natural language output representing the next-step action combining a sequence of generated tokens.
[0099]
In one embodiment, the neural network based GUI agent module 430 and one or more of its submodules 431-232 may be trained by iteratively updating the underlying parameters (e.g., weights 451, 452, etc., bias parameters and/or coefficients in the activation functions 461, 462 associated with neurons) of the neural network based on the loss. For example, during forward propagation, the training data such as sequences of GUI executions are fed into the neural network. The data flows through the network's layers 441, 442, with each layer performing computations based on its weights, biases, and activation functions until the output layer 443 produces the network's output 450. In some embodiments, output layer 443 produces an intermediate output on which the network's output 450 is based.
[0100]
The output generated by the output layer 443 is compared to the expected output (e.g., a “ground-truth” such as the corresponding GUI execution sequences for a set of GUI pages) from the training data, to compute a loss function that measures the discrepancy between the predicted output and the expected output. For example, the loss function may be cross entropy, MMSE, and/or the like. Given the loss, the negative gradient of the loss function is computed with respect to each weight of each layer individually. Such negative gradient is computed one layer at a time, iteratively backward from the last layer 443 to the input layer 441 of the neural network. These gradients quantify the sensitivity of the network's output to changes in the parameters. The chain rule of calculus is applied to efficiently calculate these gradients by propagating the gradients backward from the output layer 443 to the input layer 441.
[0101]
In one embodiment, the neural network based GUI agent module 430 and one or more of its submodules 431-232 may be trained using policy gradient methods, also referred to as “reinforcement learning” methods. For example, instead of computing a loss based on a training output generated via a forward propagation of training data, the “policy” of the neural network model, which is a mapping from an input of the current states or observations of an environment the neural network model is operated at, to an output of action. Specifically, at each time step, a reward is allocated to an output of action generated by the neural network model. The gradients of the expected cumulative reward with respect to the neural network parameters are estimated based on the output of action, the current states of observations of the environment, and/or the like. These gradients guide the update of the policy parameters using gradient descent methods like stochastic gradient descent (SGD) or Adam. In this way, as the “policy” parameters of the neural network model may be iteratively updated while generating an output action as time progresses, the boundaries between training and inference are often less distinct compared to supervised learning—in other words, backward propagation and forward propagation may occur for both “training” and “inference” stages of the neural network mode.
[0102]
In one embodiment, GUI agent module 430 and its submodules 431-232 may be housed at a centralized server (e.g., computing device 400) or one or more distributed servers. For example, one or more of GUI agent module 430 and its submodules 431-232 may be housed at external server(s). The different modules may be communicatively coupled by building one or more connections through application programming interfaces (APIs) for each respective module. Additional network environment for the distributed servers hosting different modules and/or submodules may be discussed in FIG. 4 .
[0103]
During a backward pass, parameters of the neural network are updated backwardly from the last layer to the input layer (backpropagating) based on the computed negative gradient using an optimization algorithm to minimize the loss. The backpropagation from the last layer 443 to the input layer 441 may be conducted for a number of training samples in a number of iterative training epochs. In this way, parameters of the neural network may be gradually updated in a direction to result in a lesser or minimized loss, indicating the neural network has been trained to generate a predicted output value closer to the target output value with improved prediction accuracy. Training may continue until a stopping criterion is met, such as reaching a maximum number of epochs or achieving satisfactory performance on the validation data. At this point, the trained network can be used to make predictions on new, unseen data, such as automatic video gaming.
[0104]
Neural network parameters may be trained over multiple stages. For example, initial training (e.g., pre-training) may be performed on one set of training data, and then an additional training stage (e.g., fine-tuning) may be performed using a different set of training data. In some embodiments, all or a portion of parameters of one or more neural-network model being used together may be frozen, such that the “frozen” parameters are not updated during that training phase. This may allow, for example, a smaller subset of the parameters to be trained without the computing cost of updating all of the parameters.
[0105]
In some implementations, to improve the computational efficiency of training a neural network model, “training” a neural network model such as an LLM may sometimes be carried out by updating the input prompt, e.g., the instruction to teach an LLM how to perform a certain task. For example, while the parameters of the LLM may be frozen, a set of tunable prompt parameters and/or embeddings that are usually appended to an input to the LLM may be updated based on a training loss during a backward pass. For another example, instead of tuning any parameter during a backward pass, input prompts, instructions, or input formats may be updated to influence their output or behavior. Such prompt designs may range from simple keyword prompts to more sophisticated templates or examples tailored to specific tasks or domains.
[0106]
In general, the training and/or finetuning of an LLM can be computationally extensive. For example, GPT-3 has 175 billion parameters, and a single forward pass using an input of a short sequence can involve hundreds of teraflops (trillions of floating-point operations) of computation. Training such a model requires immense computational resources, including powerful GPUs or TPUs and significant memory capacity. Additionally, during training, multiple forward and backward passes through the network are performed for each batch of data (e.g., thousands of training samples), further adding to the computational load.
[0107]
In general, the training process transforms the neural network into an “updated” trained neural network with updated parameters such as weights, activation functions, and biases. The trained neural network thus improves neural network technology in AI agent.
[0108]
FIG. 6 is a simplified block diagram of a networked system 600 suitable for implementing the GUI agent framework described in FIGS. 1-3 and other embodiments described herein. In one embodiment, system 600 includes the user device 610 which may be operated by user 640, data vendor servers 645, 670 and 680, server 630, and other forms of devices, servers, and/or software components that operate to perform various methodologies in accordance with the described embodiments. Exemplary devices and servers may include device, stand-alone, and enterprise-class servers which may be similar to the computing device 200 described in FIG. 2A, operating an OS such as a MICROSOFT® OS, a UNIX® OS, a LINUX® OS, or other suitable device and/or server-based OS. It can be appreciated that the devices and/or servers illustrated in FIG. 6 may be deployed in other ways and that the operations performed, and/or the services provided by such devices and/or servers may be combined or separated for a given embodiment and may be performed by a greater number or fewer number of devices and/or servers. One or more devices and/or servers may be operated and/or maintained by the same or different entities.
[0109]
The user device 610, data vendor servers 645, 670 and 680, and the server 630 may communicate with each other over a network 660. User device 610 may be utilized by a user 640 (e.g., a driver, a system admin, etc.) to access the various features available for user device 610, which may include processes and/or applications associated with the server 630 to receive an output data anomaly report.
[0110]
User device 610, data vendor server 645, and the server 630 may each include one or more processors, memories, and other appropriate components for executing instructions such as program code and/or data stored on one or more computer readable mediums to implement the various applications, data, and steps described herein. For example, such instructions may be stored in one or more computer readable media such as memories or data storage devices internal and/or external to various components of system 600, and/or accessible over network 660.
[0111]
User device 610 may be implemented as a communication device that may utilize appropriate hardware and software configured for wired and/or wireless communication with data vendor server 645 and/or the server 630. For example, in one embodiment, user device 610 may be implemented as an autonomous driving vehicle, a personal computer (PC), a smart phone, laptop/tablet computer, wristwatch with appropriate computer hardware resources, eyeglasses with appropriate computer hardware (e.g., GOOGLE GLASS®), other type of wearable computing device, implantable communication devices, and/or other types of computing devices capable of transmitting and/or receiving data, such as an IPAD® from APPLE®. Although only one communication device is shown, a plurality of communication devices may function similarly.
[0112]
User device 610 of FIG. 6 contains a user interface (UI) application 612, and/or other applications 616, which may correspond to executable processes, procedures, and/or applications with associated hardware. For example, the user device 610 may receive a message indicating a demonstration of GUI execution from the server 630 and display the message via the UI application 612. In other embodiments, user device 610 may include additional or different modules having specialized hardware and/or software as required.
[0113]
In one embodiment, UI application 612 may communicatively and interactively generate a UI for an AI agent implemented through the GUI agent module 230 (e.g., an LLM agent) at server 630. In at least one embodiment, a user operating user device 610 may enter a user utterance, e.g., via text or audio input, such as a question, uploading a document, and/or the like via the UI application 612. Such user utterance may be sent to server 630, at which GUI agent module 230 may generate a response via the process described in FIGS. 1-3 . The GUI agent module 230 may thus cause a display of exemplary GUI execution results at UI application 612 and interactively update the display in real time with the user utterance.
[0114]
In various embodiments, user device 610 includes other applications 616 as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide features to user device 610. For example, other applications 616 may include security applications for implementing client-side security features, programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces (APIs) over network 660, or other types of applications. Other applications 616 may also include communication applications, such as email, texting, voice, social networking, and IM applications that allow a user to send and receive emails, calls, texts, and other notifications through network 660. For example, the other application 616 may be an email or instant messaging application that receives a prediction result message from the server 630. Other applications 616 may include device interfaces and other display modules that may receive input and/or output information. For example, other applications 616 may contain software programs for asset management, executable by a processor, including a graphical user interface (GUI) configured to provide an interface to the user 640 to view GUI execution results.
[0115]
User device 610 may further include database 618 stored in a transitory and/or non-transitory memory of user device 610, which may store various applications and data and be utilized during execution of various modules of user device 610. Database 618 may store user profile relating to the user 640, predictions previously viewed or saved by the user 640, historical data received from the server 630, and/or the like. In some embodiments, database 618 may be local to user device 610. However, in other embodiments, database 618 may be external to user device 610 and accessible by user device 610, including cloud storage systems and/or databases that are accessible over network 660.
[0116]
User device 610 includes at least one network interface component 617 adapted to communicate with data vendor server 645 and/or the server 630. In various embodiments, network interface component 617 may include a DSL (e.g., Digital Subscriber Line) modem, a PSTN (Public Switched Telephone Network) modem, an Ethernet device, a broadband device, a satellite device and/or various other types of wired and/or wireless network communication devices including microwave, radio frequency, infrared, Bluetooth, and near field communication devices.
[0117]
Data vendor server 645 may correspond to a server that hosts database 619 to provide training datasets including to the server 630. The database 619 may be implemented by one or more relational database, distributed databases, cloud databases, and/or the like.
[0118]
The data vendor server 645 includes at least one network interface component 626 adapted to communicate with user device 610 and/or the server 630. In various embodiments, network interface component 626 may include a DSL (e.g., Digital Subscriber Line) modem, a PSTN (Public Switched Telephone Network) modem, an Ethernet device, a broadband device, a satellite device and/or various other types of wired and/or wireless network communication devices including microwave, radio frequency, infrared, Bluetooth, and near field communication devices. For example, in one implementation, the data vendor server 645 may send asset information from the database 619, via the network interface 626, to the server 630.
[0119]
The server 630 may be housed with the GUI agent module 230 and its submodules described in FIG. 2A. In some implementations, GUI agent module 230 may receive data from database 619 at the data vendor server 645 via the network 660 to generate GUI executions. The generated GUI execution results may also be sent to the user device 610 for review by the user 640 via the network 660.
[0120]
In one embodiment, an AI agent implementing the GUI agent module 430 and its submodules described in FIG. 4A may be built based on an LLM as described in FIG. 4B. For example, the AI agent may be configured with one or more LLMs (e.g., each pretrained for a specific task or domain), a plurality of system prompts, and connected to external APIs to databases and applications (e.g., a search engine, a cloud service, an internal database, etc.).
[0121]
In some embodiments, the AI agent implementing the GUI agent module 430 and its submodules described in FIG. 4A may be implemented as a cloud-based AI agent which may be accessed by user device 610 via a chatbot application, a web application, customer support or SaaS applications. In another implementation, a client-side AI agent component may be delivered from the server 630 to user device 610 for local installation such that the client-side AI agent may be installed and runs directly on the user's device. Such local AI agent on the user device 610 may be available offline to adapt to privacy-sensitive applications. In another implementation, the AI agent implementing the GUI agent module 430 and its submodules described in FIG. 4A may adopt a hybrid cloud and client-based structure to balance computing speed, cost and privacy. For example, a local AI agent may handle basic AI queries locally, but complex queries may be sent to server 630 to process.
[0122]
The database 632 may be stored in a transitory and/or non-transitory memory of the server 630. In one implementation, the database 632 may store data obtained from the data vendor server 645. In one implementation, the database 632 may store parameters of the GUI agent module 230. In one implementation, the database 632 may store previously generated GUI executions, and the corresponding input feature vectors.
[0123]
In some embodiments, database 632 may be local to the server 630. However, in other embodiments, database 632 may be external to the server 630 and accessible by the server 630, including cloud storage systems and/or databases that are accessible over network 660.
[0124]
The server 630 includes at least one network interface component 633 adapted to communicate with user device 610 and/or data vendor servers 645, 670 or 680 over network 660. In various embodiments, network interface component 633 may comprise a DSL (e.g., Digital Subscriber Line) modem, a PSTN (Public Switched Telephone Network) modem, an Ethernet device, a broadband device, a satellite device and/or various other types of wired and/or wireless network communication devices including microwave, radio frequency (RF), and infrared (IR) communication devices.
[0125]
Network 660 may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example, in various embodiments, network 660 may include the Internet or one or more intranets, landline networks, wireless networks, and/or other appropriate types of networks. Thus, network 660 may correspond to small scale communication networks, such as a private or local area network, or a larger scale network, such as a wide area network or the Internet, accessible by the various components of system 600.
Example Work Flows
[0126]
FIG. 7 is an example logic flow diagram illustrating a method of building a GUI agent to automate tasks across different computing platforms based on the framework shown in FIGS. 1A-6 , according to some embodiments described herein. One or more of the processes of method 700 may be implemented, at least in part, in the form of executable code stored on non-transitory, tangible, machine-readable media that when run by one or more processors may cause the one or more processors to perform one or more of the processes. In some embodiments, method 700 corresponds to the operation of the GUI agent module 430 (e.g., FIGS. 4 and 6 ) that performs automating tasks across different computing platforms.
[0127]
In some embodiments, method 700 is performed by a system such as computing device 400, user device 610, server 630, or another device or combination of devices. Inputs (e.g., a user task request) may be received via a data interface such as data interface 415, network interface 617, network interface 633, or via a data interface that is integrated with a device. For example UI Application 612 may receive user inputs via a text input interface (e.g., keyboard), audio input (e.g., microphone), video interface (e.g., camera), or other interface for receiving user inputs (e.g., a mouse or touch display).
[0128]
As illustrated, the method 700 includes a number of enumerated steps, but aspects of the method 700 may include additional steps before, after, and in between the enumerated steps. In some aspects, one or more of the enumerated steps may be omitted or performed in a different order.
[0129]
At step 702, the GUI agent may obtain a first dataset (e.g., 205 in FIG. 2 ) including multiple GUI trajectories of observations (e.g., 221 in FIG. 2 ) of the different computing platforms and corresponding GUI actions (e.g., 223 in FIG. 2 ). For example, at least one GUI trajectory of the multiple GUI trajectories includes one or more of: one or more image observations of the different computing platforms, one or more system-level instructions for the different computing platforms, and one or more atomic GUI actions. The different computing platforms comprise one or more of: a web platform, a desktop platform, an application specific platform, and a mobile platform.
[0130]
At step 704, a vision-language model (e.g., 125 in FIG. 2 ) deployed on one or more hardware processors may be trained using the first dataset to generate one or more platform-specific GUI actions in response to a user task request relating to a specific computing platform. For example, the one or more platform-specific GUI actions are selected from an action space combining different types of actions across the different computing platforms. In response to detecting the new action from a GUI trajectory, a new action may be with an existing action in the action space. Or in response to determining that the new action does not map to any existing action in the action space, the new action may be added as associated with a natural language description compliant of an action format of the action space.
[0131]
At step 706, the GUI agent may obtain a second dataset (e.g., 208 in FIG. 2 ) including a plurality of natural language descriptions representing reasoning (e.g., 225 in FIG. 2 ) for the corresponding GUI actions. For example, the second dataset including the plurality of natural language descriptions representing reasoning for the one or more platform-specific GUI actions may be generated by a multi-modal language model based on the multiple GUI trajectories in the first dataset, e.g., as shown in FIG. 3 .
[0132]
At step 708, the vision-language model (e.g., 125 in FIG. 2 ), trained after step 704, may be trained again using the second dataset to generate associated reasoning for the one or more platform-specific GUI actions.
[0133]
At step 710, the GUI agent may be built on the trained vision-language model to automate a series of GUI actions (e.g., 122 in FIG. 1B) executed on the specific computing platform (e.g., 109 in FIG. 1B) based on captured visual observations (e.g., 121 in FIG. 1B) of the specific computing platform thereby causing the computing platform to evolve into a solution to the user request (e.g., 106 in FIG. 1A).
[0134]
At step 712, the GUI agent may further cause a display of reasoning (e.g., 124 in FIG. 1B) associated with the series of GUI actions while the series of GUI actions is being executed on the specific computing platform.
[0135]
In one embodiment, for example, the GUI may be associated with an application relating to a diagnostic request in view of a medical record in a healthcare system, a curriculum designing request in an online education system, a code generation request in a software development system, a writing and/or editing request in a content generation system, an IT diagnostic request in an IT customer service support system, a navigation request in a robotic and autonomous system, and/or the like. By performing embodiments described herein, the neural network based artificial agent may improve technology in the respective technical field in healthcare and diagnostics, education and personalized learning, software development and code assistance, content creation, autonomous system (such as autonomous driving, etc.), and/or the like.
[0136]
For example, when the task query includes a query to identify an information technology (IT) anomaly relating to a usage of an IT component such as a network gateway, a router, an online printer, and/or the like, by performing method 700 at an environment of a local area network (LAN), the neural network based artificial agent may receive an observation from the environment at which the next-step action is executed, and determine that the observation representing an information technology anomaly (e.g., a router failure, an unauthorized access attempt, a domain name system anomaly, and/or the like). In some implementations, the neural network based artificial agent may cause an alert relating to the information technology anomaly to be displayed at a visualized user interface. In some implementations, the neural network based artificial agent may generate atomic actions to identify the origin of the anomaly, and therefore block traffic from the origin for a period of time. In this way, IT anomalies may be detected and alerted using the neural network based artificial agent in an efficient manner so as to improve network support technology.
Example Data Experiments
[0137]
In one embodiment, to evaluate the effectiveness of GUI agent described in FIGS. 1A-7 across different platforms, example experiments were conducted on several GUI benchmarks, including GUI Grounding Evaluation and Offline/Online GUI Agent Evaluation. The initial assessment focused on GUI grounding performance, a fundamental capability of GUI agent models. Evaluation was performed using the ScreenSpot dataset, which features a range of grounding instructions designed for mobile, desktop, and website platforms. Two evaluation settings were used: (1) Original Instructions, where models execute grounding actions directly based on the provided instructions, and (2) Self-plan, where models first generate natural language plans from the original instructions before performing grounding actions.
[0138]
As shown in Table 1, GUI agent (e.g., 110, 430, referred to as “AGUIVIS”) demonstrates strong GUI grounding capabilities under both evaluation settings across multiple platforms. With the proposed grounding training, AGUVIS-G-7B significantly surpasses existing models in the Original Instructions setting, indicating robust universal GUI grounding performance. After training on high-quality planning trajectory data, AGUVIS further exhibits strong planning capabilities, outperforming prior models that depend on external closed-source large language models. Additionally, scaling up the model parameters, AGUVIS-72B achieves state-of-the-art performance, reaching an average score of 89.2.
TABLE 1
Comparison of Different Planners and Grounding Methods
Mobile	Desktop	Web	
Planner	Grounder	Text	Icon/Widget	Text	Icon/Widget	Text	Icon/Widget	Avg
—	GPT-4	22.6	24.5	20.2	11.8	9.2	8.8	16.2
GPT-4o	20.2	24.9	21.1	23.6	12.2	7.8	18.3
CogAgent	67.0	24.0	74.2	20.0	70.4	28.6	47.4
SeeClick	78.0	52.0	72.2	30.0	55.7	32.5	53.4
Qwen2-VL	75.5	60.7	76.3	54.3	35.2	25.7	55.3
UGround	82.8	60.3	82.5	63.6	80.4	70.4	73.3
AGUVIS-G-7B	88.3	78.2	88.1	70.7	85.7	74.8	81.8
GPT-4	SeeClick	76.6	55.5	68.0	28.6	40.9	23.3	48.8
OmniParser	93.9	57.0	91.3	63.6	81.3	51.0	73.0
UGround	90.1	70.3	87.1	55.7	85.7	64.6	75.6
GPT-4o	SeeClick	81.0	59.8	69.6	33.6	43.9	26.2	52.3
UGround	93.4	76.9	92.8	67.9	88.7	68.9	81.4
AGUVIS-7B	95.6	77.7	93.8	67.1	88.3	75.2	84.4
AGUVIS-72B	94.5	85.2	95.4	77.9	91.3	85.9	89.2
[0139]
In one embodiment, the dataset Multimodal-Mind2Web has been used to evaluate the offline planning capabilities of GUI agents on websites, building upon the original Mind2Web framework. Comparisons have been made with prior approaches, including closed large language models using text-only inputs or state-of-mind (SOM) representations, as well as recent pure vision-based agent models. In alignment with previous methodologies, AGUVIS utilized only GUI screenshots as observations. Element accuracy (Ele.Acc), Operation F1 (Op.F1), and step success rate (Step SR) are reported. As shown in Table 2, AGUVIS consistently achieves superior performance, with a notable improvement in Step SR (+51.9% on average), indicating enhanced planning and reasoning capabilities.
TABLE 2
Performance comparison on Multimodal Mind2Web across different settings
Cross-Task	Cross-Website	Cross-Domain
Obs.	Planner	Grounder	Ele. Acc	Op. F1	Step SR	Ele. Acc	Op. F1	Step SR	Ele. Acc	Op. F1	Step SR
T	GPT-3,5	Choice	19.4	59.2	16.8	14.9	56.5	14.1	25.2	57.9	24.1
GPT-4	Choice	40.8	63.1	32.3	30.2	61.0	27.0	35.4	61.9	29.7
T + 1	GPT-4	Choice	46.4	73.4	40.2	38.0	67.8	32.4	42.4	69.3	36.8
GPT-4	SoM	29.6	—	20.3	20.1	—	13.9	27.0	—	23.7
1	—	SeeClick	23.8	—	—	15.3	—	—	16.2	—	—
—	CogAgent	54.2	—	—	50.0	—	—	54.7	—	—
1	GPT-4o	SeeClick	32.1	—	—	33.1	—	—	33.5	—	—
GPT-4V	OmniParser	42.4	87.6	39.4	41.0	84.8	36.5	45.5	85.7	42.0
GPT-4o	UGround	47.7	—	—	46.0	—	—	46.6	—	—
1	AGUVIS-7B	64.2	89.8	60.4	60.7	88.1	54.6	60.4	89.2	56.6
AGUVIS-72B	69.5	90.8	64.0	62.6	88.6	56.5	63.5	88.5	58.2
[0140]
Additionally, the planning performance of GUI agent models on mobile devices was assessed using AndroidControl. Following the established evaluation protocol, 500 step-actions were randomly sampled to create a subset, and step accuracy was reported on out-of-domain (OOD) data across both high-level and low-level tasks. In the high-level task setting, the model is required to plan and execute actions, whereas in the low-level setting, the model must follow human-labeled instructions to perform the next action. Baseline comparisons were made with models using either textual accessibility trees or GUI images as observations. Table 3 shows that AGUVIS achieves the best performance under both evaluation settings.
TABLE 3
Step Accuracy of out-of-domain (OOD) data on AndroidControl
Step Accuracy
High-	Low-
Observation	Planner	Grounder	Level	Level
Acc. Tree	GPT-4-Turbo	Choice	42.1	55.0
PaLM 2S (Specialized)	Choice	58.5	77.5
Image	GPT-4-Turbo	SeeClick	39.4	47.2
GPT-4-Turbo	UGround	46.2	58.0
GPT-4o	SeeClick	41.8	52.8
GPT-4o	UGround	48.4	62.4
Image	AGUVIS-7B	61.5	80.5
AGUVIS-72B	66.4	84.4
[0141]
In one embodiment, beyond offline planning, additional data experiments are carried out on real-time interaction benchmarks, including Mind2Web-Live, AndroidWorld, and MobileMiniWob:
[0142]
Mind2Web-Live is a dynamic dataset operating in a real web-based environment, derived from the original Mind2Web. This benchmark measures task success by evaluating whether each required step within a task has been completed, with task success rate (Task SR) reported as the main metric.
[0143]
AndroidWorld is a benchmark running in an Android virtual environment that dynamically generates unique tasks through random parameter instantiation, allowing for automatic evaluation. To assess pure vision-based agent models, a Pixel 6 phone simulator was installed on experimental systems following standard procedures. AndroidWorld includes a fully automated task-level evaluation system that verifies whether a designated task has been successfully completed.
[0144]
MobileMiniWob adapts 92 tasks from MiniWob++ into the AndroidWorld environment. The same observation and action spaces from AndroidWorld are employed, and task success rate is determined using a real-time evaluation function.
[0145]
Two experimental configurations are explored: in the first setup, GPT-4o serves as the planner in collaboration with AGUVIS-7B as the grounder. In the second configuration, AGUVIS-72B is used in a dual role, functioning as both planner and grounder. Performance was compared with existing state-of-the-art methods that also utilize GPT-4o models as planners. Unlike previous approaches that depend on Set-of-Mark (SOM) representations or textual HTML/AXTree information, AGUVIS relies solely on screenshots as observations and is restricted to pyautogui-based actions across all environments. The screenshot viewport is set to a resolution of 1280×720, and all actions based on HTML/AXTree selection are disabled.
[0146]
As shown in Table 4 and Table 5, when GPT-4o is used as the planner, AGUVIS-7B outperforms existing methods in task success rate across multiple benchmarks. Furthermore, employing AGUVIS-72B as both planner and grounder resulted in the best performance on Mind2Web-Live and MobileMiniWob, highlighting the potential advantages of purely visual agent models for autonomous GUI interactions. In addition, AGUVIS-72B demonstrates significant efficiency advantages over both closed-source and open-source models, suggesting strong potential for applying purely visual agents in real-world online scenarios.
TABLE 4
Task Success Rate (SR) and efficiency costs on Mind2WebLive
Inputs	Planner	Grounder	Task SR	USD Efficiency
HTML	GPT-4-Turbo	Choice	21.1	—
GPT-4o	Choice	22.1	0.142
Llama-3.1-405B	Choice	24.0	0.174
Llama-3.1-70B	Choice	20.2	0.031
GPT-3.5-turbo	Choice	17.3	0.092
Image	GPT-4-Turbo	UGround	23.1	—
GPT-4o	UGround	19.2	—
GPT-4o	AGUVIS-7B	24.0	0.106
Image	AGUVIS-72B	27.1	0.012
TABLE 5
Task Success Rates (SR) on AndroidWorld and MobileMiniWob
Input	Planner	Grounding	AndroidWorldSR	MobileMiniWobSR
AXTree	GPT-4-	Choice	30.6	59.7
Turbo
Gemini	Choice	19.4	57.4
1.5 Pro
Image +	GPT-4-	SoM	25.4	67.7
AXTree	Turbo
Gemini	SoM	22.8	40.3
1.5 Pro
Image	GPT-4-	UGround	31.0	—
Turbo
GPT-4o	UGround	32.8	—
GPT-4o	AGUVIS-	37.1	55.0
7B
Image	AGUVIS-72B	26.1	66.0
[0147]
This description and the accompanying drawings that illustrate inventive aspects, embodiments, implementations, or applications should not be taken as limiting. Various mechanical, compositional, structural, electrical, and operational changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of this description and the claims. In some instances, well-known circuits, structures, or techniques have not been shown or described in detail in order not to obscure the embodiments of this disclosure. Like numbers in two or more figures represent the same or similar elements.
[0148]
In this description, specific details are set forth describing some embodiments consistent with the present disclosure. Numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. It will be apparent, however, to one skilled in the art that some embodiments may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. The specific embodiments disclosed herein are meant to be illustrative but not limiting. One skilled in the art may realize other elements that, although not specifically described here, are within the scope and the spirit of this disclosure. In addition, to avoid unnecessary repetition, one or more features shown and described in association with one embodiment may be incorporated into other embodiments unless specifically described otherwise or if the one or more features would make an embodiment non-functional.
[0149]
Although illustrative embodiments have been shown and described, a wide range of modification, change and substitution is contemplated in the foregoing disclosure and in some instances, some features of the embodiments may be employed without a corresponding use of other features. One of ordinary skill in the art would recognize many variations, alternatives, and modifications. Thus, the scope of the invention should be limited only by the following claims, and it is appropriate that the claims be construed broadly and, in a manner, consistent with the scope of the embodiments disclosed herein.
Claims (20)
Hide Dependent 
What is claimed is:
1. A computer-implemented method for building a graphical user interface (GUI) agent to automate tasks across different computing platforms, the method comprising:
obtaining a first dataset including multiple GUI trajectories of observations of the different computing platforms and corresponding GUI actions;
training a vision-language model deployed on one or more hardware processors using the first dataset to generate one or more platform-specific GUI actions in response to a user task request relating to a specific computing platform;
obtaining a second dataset including a plurality of natural language descriptions representing reasoning for the corresponding GUI actions;
training the vision-language model using the second dataset to generate associated reasoning for the one or more platform-specific GUI actions;
automating, by the GUI agent built on the trained vision-language model, a series of GUI actions executed on the specific computing platform based on captured visual observations of the specific computing platform thereby causing the computing platform to evolve into a solution to the user request; and
causing a display of reasoning associated with the series of GUI actions while the series of GUI actions is being executed on the specific computing platform.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein at least one GUI trajectory of the multiple GUI trajectories includes one or more of:
one or more image observations of the different computing platforms;
one or more system-level instructions for the different computing platforms; and
one or more atomic GUI actions.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the different computing platforms comprise one or more of:
a web platform;
a desktop platform;
an application specific platform; and
a mobile platform.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the one or more platform-specific GUI actions are selected from an action space combining different types of actions across the different computing platforms.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, further comprising:
in response to detecting the new action from a GUI trajectory:
aligning a new action with an existing action in the action space.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, further comprising:
in response to determining that the new action does not map to any existing action in the action space, adding the new action associated with a natural language description compliant of an action format of the action space.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of natural language descriptions representing reasoning for the one or more platform-specific GUI actions are generated by a multi-modal language model based on the multiple GUI trajectories in the first dataset.
8. A system for building a graphical user interface (GUI) agent to automate tasks across different computing platforms, the system comprising:
a memory that stores a vision-language model and a plurality of processor executable instructions;
a communication interface that receives a first dataset including multiple GUI trajectories of observations of the different computing platforms and corresponding GUI actions; and
one or more hardware processors that read and execute the plurality of processor-executable instructions from the memory, wherein the plurality of processor-executable instructions are configurable to cause the system to perform operations comprising:
training a vision-language model deployed on one or more hardware processors using the first dataset to generate one or more platform-specific GUI actions in response to a user task request relating to a specific computing platform;
obtaining a second dataset including a plurality of natural language descriptions representing reasoning for the corresponding GUI actions;
training the vision-language model using the second dataset to generate associated reasoning for the one or more platform-specific GUI actions;
automating, by the GUI agent built on the trained vision-language model, a series of GUI actions executed on the specific computing platform based on captured visual observations of the specific computing platform thereby causing the computing platform to evolve into a solution to the user request; and
causing a display of reasoning associated with the series of GUI actions while the series of GUI actions is being executed on the specific computing platform.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein at least one GUI trajectory of the multiple GUI trajectories includes one or more of:
one or more image observations of the different computing platforms;
one or more system-level instructions for the different computing platforms; and
one or more atomic GUI actions.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the different computing platforms comprise one or more of:
a web platform;
a desktop platform;
an application specific platform; and
a mobile platform.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the one or more platform-specific GUI actions are selected from an action space combining different types of actions across the different computing platforms.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the operations further comprise:
in response to detecting the new action from a GUI trajectory:
aligning a new action with an existing action in the action space.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the operations further comprise:
in response to determining that the new action does not map to any existing action in the action space, adding the new action associated with a natural language description compliant of an action format of the action space.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein the plurality of natural language descriptions representing reasoning for the one or more platform-specific GUI actions are generated by a multi-modal language model based on the multiple GUI trajectories in the first dataset.
15. A non-transitory machine-readable medium comprising a plurality of instructions for building a graphical user interface (GUI) agent to automate tasks across different computing platforms, executable by one or more processors, wherein the plurality of instructions are configurable to cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising:
obtaining a first dataset including multiple GUI trajectories of observations of the different computing platforms and corresponding GUI actions;
training a vision-language model deployed on one or more hardware processors using the first dataset to generate one or more platform-specific GUI actions in response to a user task request relating to a specific computing platform;
obtaining a second dataset including a plurality of natural language descriptions representing reasoning for the corresponding GUI actions;
training the vision-language model using the second dataset to generate associated reasoning for the one or more platform-specific GUI actions;
automating, by the GUI agent built on the trained vision-language model, a series of GUI actions executed on the specific computing platform based on captured visual observations of the specific computing platform thereby causing the computing platform to evolve into a solution to the user request; and
causing a display of reasoning associated with the series of GUI actions while the series of GUI actions is being executed on the specific computing platform.
16. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 15, wherein at least one GUI trajectory of the multiple GUI trajectories includes one or more of:
one or more image observations of the different computing platforms;
one or more system-level instructions for the different computing platforms; and
one or more atomic GUI actions.
17. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the different computing platforms comprise one or more of:
a web platform;
a desktop platform;
an application specific platform; and
a mobile platform.
18. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the one or more platform-specific GUI actions are selected from an action space combining different types of actions across the different computing platforms.
19. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 18, further comprising:
in response to detecting the new action from a GUI trajectory, aligning a new action with an existing action in the action space; or
in response to determining that the new action does not map to any existing action in the action space, adding the new action associated with a natural language description compliant of an action format of the action space.
20. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the plurality of natural language descriptions representing reasoning for the one or more platform-specific GUI actions are generated by a multi-modal language model based on the multiple GUI trajectories in the first dataset.

WO2026089835A1：

Description
AUTOMATICALLY DETERMINING WORKSTREAMS FROM COMMON ACTIONS IN ONLINE APPLICATIONS CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
This application claims the benefit of US provisional application 63/710,963, filed October 23, 2024, and US Patent Application No. 19/076,692 filed March 11, 2025, the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes as if fully set forth herein.
COPYRIGHT NOTICE
A portion of this patent document’s disclosure contains material subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure, as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records, but otherwise reserves all copyright or rights whatsoever. © 2023-2024 8Flow Inc.
TECHNICAL FIELD
The present disclosure relates to artificial intelligence and machine learning, including Gated Restricted Unit (GRU) models. The disclosure also relates to software-implemented processes of continuously creating user experience data to generate automated actions for process automation.
BACKGROUND
The approaches described in this section are approaches that could be pursued but not necessarily approaches that have been previously conceived or pursued. Therefore, unless otherwise indicated, it should not be assumed that any of the approaches described in this section qualify as prior art merely by their inclusion in this section.
Knowledge workers such as customer support agents often work across a group of software applications all day, every day, to get work done. For example, in response to a phone call or chat session in which a customer communicates a question or request to an agent, the agent may start working with a request ticketing system, switch to one or more websites or web-based applications to view information, click on functions and thus submit uniform resource locators (URLs) to websites or web-based applications, and return to the ticketing system to close the request. Support is a world of many applications, tabs, workflows, and data transfers. During these actions, to accomplish a sub-task to close a ticket, agents may repeatedly select the same websites, web applications, or types of information. Over time. agents may interact with many customers, callers, or other requesters, each of whom is requesting assistance with transactions having different details concerning products, sendees, prices, and dates. However, resolving requests for all such customers still requires the repeated use of the same websites or web applications in a routinized manner, while selected transaction details differ.
For example, handling an order return has been observed to require 50 or more clicks or selections of information across different systems. Assume an agent is assigned a case in a ticketing system to process an order return. The ticketing system could be Zendesk or another. To initiate the return, the agent must copy three fields from the ticket: customer name, email, and order number — seven clicks. The agent must open the ordering system and find the order by pasting the order number. The agent might verify the customer’s name and contact information and initiate a return on the order. The agent then needs to copy the return address, customer name, and customer address — perhaps 18 clicks. The agent then must open a shipping system like FedEx, UPS, or USPS to obtain a shipping label. For this, the agent inputs the return address, customer name, and customer address, receives the shipping label, and must copy the shipping confirmation code — requiring 15 clicks. The agent must return to the ordering system and paste the shipping confirmation code to confirm the return and initiate a backend return workflow — 5 clicks. The agent then must return to the ticketing system and attach the shipping label, generating an email with the shipping label to send to the user — 7 clicks. These repeated flows of clicks, network accesses, or other web interactions are inefficient, time-consuming, slow, and not a good use of human time.
Based on the foregoing, the referenced technical fields have developed an acute need for better ways to implement computer learning of online workflows so that the machine knows what to do next and the agents guide the machine learning to improve.
SUMMARY
The appended claims may serve as a summary of the invention.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
In the drawings:
FIG. 1 illustrates a distributed computer system showing the context of use and principal functional elements with which one embodiment could be implemented.
FIG. 2 illustrates a computer system with which one embodiment could be implemented. FIG. 3 illustrates a set of software applications with which an embodiment can interoperate.
FIG. 4 illustrates a process of installing and executing a workflow automation program. FIG. 5 illustrates a process of executing an inference stage of a machine learning model to predict a sequence of operations for execution using web-based applications.
FIG. 6 illustrates four example user workflows involving interactions with and transfers of data between multiple different web-based applications.
FIG. 7A illustrates a program flow of one embodiment of creating and storing data useful in workflow automations and training machine learning models.
FIG. 7B illustrates a program flow' of one embodiment of training a machine learning model and executing the inference stage of the machine learning model.
FIG. 7C illustrates a sequence of user actions corresponding to multiple sub-tasks in multiple web-based applications that can be captured as a single automation in training data to train a machine learning model.
FIG. 8A illustrates examples of an extension panel, a relay panel, and a suggested flows panel that the browser extension may be programmed to generate and display over a web page of a web-based application.
FIG. 8B illustrates an example of a graphical user interface of a web-based software application in association with an extension panel that implements aspects of the present disclosure.
FIG. 9 illustrates an example of initially creating pinned data associated with user action in an application.
FIG. 10A illustrates an example of a browser extension generating and displaying suggestions of pinned data for entry in fields of a w eb-based application.
FIG. 10B illustrates an example of a browser extension generating and displaying suggestions of pinned data for entry in fields of a web-based application different from that of FIG. 10 A.
FIG. 10C illustrates another GUI with the extension panel and an automatic data update in the extension panel.
FIG. 11 illustrates the GUI of FIG. 8B and FIG. 9 with updates to the extension panel and a reply from the agent. FIG. 12 illustrates the GUI of FIG. 11 after the agent has sent the reply message to the customer.
FIG. 13A, FIG. 13B, FIG. 13C. and FIG. 13D illustrate examples of graphical user interfaces that can be used in another embodiment.
FIG. 14A, FIG. 14B, and FIG. 14C illustrate examples of programmed processes, of one embodiment, to train and use machine-learning models to automatically leam workflows in web-based applications from user events and to generate suggestions of workflows in response to sequences of user events or natural language input.
FIG. 15A illustrates a computer-implemented method of automatically determining workstreams from common actions in online applications in one embodiment.
FIG. 15B illustrates a computer-implemented method of executing common action discover}'.
FIG. 15C illustrates a computer-implemented method of automating the collection of training data for machine learning.
FIG. 15D illustrates a computer-implemented process of determining the user’s highest action ranking.
FIG. 16A illustrates an example of graph database storage of a plurality of events in an event graph.
FIG. 16B illustrates an example of graph database storage of a plurality of events in an event graph.
FIG. 17A and FIG. 17B illustrate examples of prompts to an LLM followed by example responses.
FIG. 18A and FIG. 18B illustrate a computer-implemented process of agent-assisted workflows.
FIG. 19A, FIG. 19B, FIG. 19C, and FIG. 19D illustrate computer display devices showing example graphical user interfaces during the execution of agent-assisted actions based on the techniques that have been described for FIG. 18A and FIG. 18B.
FIG. 20 illustrates a computer-implemented method of executing common action discover}' using an LLM.
FIG. 21 illustrates an example of a workflow automation application utilizing an LLM to generate vocabulary and execute workflows.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION In the following description, for the purposes of explanation, numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent, however, that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances, well-known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.
The text of this disclosure, in combination with the drawing figures, is intended to state in prose the algorithms that are necessary to program the computer to implement the claimed inventions at the same level of detail that is used by people of skill in the arts to which this disclosure pertains to communicate with one another concerning functions to be programmed, inputs, transformations, outputs and other aspects of programming. That is, the level of detail outlined in this disclosure is the same level of detail that persons of skill in the art normally use to communicate with one another to express algorithms to be programmed or the structure and function of programs to implement the inventions claimed herein.
This disclosure may describe one or more different inventions, with alternative embodiments to illustrate examples. Other embodiments may be utilized, and structural, logical, software, electrical, and other changes may be made without departing from the scope of the particular inventions. Various modifications and alterations are possible and expected. Some features of one or more of the inventions may be described concerning one or more particular embodiments or drawing figures, but such features are not limited to usage in the one or more particular embodiments or figures for which they are described. Thus, the present disclosure is neither a literal description of all embodiments of one or more inventions nor a listing of features of one or more of the inventions that must be present in all embodiments.
Headings of sections and the title are provided for convenience but are not intended to limit the disclosure in any way or as a basis for interpreting the claims. Devices that are described as in communication with each other need not be in continuous communication with each other unless expressly specified otherwise. In addition, devices that communicate with each other may communicate directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, logical or physical.
A description of an embodiment with several components in communication with one other does not imply that all such components are required. Optional components may be described to illustrate a variety of possible embodiments and to fully illustrate one or more aspects of the inventions. Similarly, although process steps, method steps, algorithms, or the like may be described in sequential order, such processes, methods, and algorithms may generally be configured to work in different orders unless specifically stated to the contrary. Any sequence or order of steps described in this disclosure is not a required sequence or order. The steps of the described processes may be performed in any order practical. Further, some steps may be performed simultaneously. The illustration of a process in a drawing does not exclude variations and modifications, does not imply that the process or any of its steps are necessary to one or more of the invention(s), and does not imply that the illustrated process is preferred. The steps may be described once per embodiment but need not occur only once. Some steps may be omitted in some embodiments or occurrences, or some steps may be executed more than once in a given embodiment or occurrence. When a single device or article is described, more than one device or article may be used in place of a single device or article. Where more than one device or article is described, a single device or article may be used instead of more than one device or article.
The functionality or features of a device may be alternatively embodied by one or more other devices that are not explicitly described as having such functionality or features. Thus, other embodiments of one or more inventions need not include the device itself. Techniques and mechanisms described or referenced herein will sometimes be described in singular form for clarity. However, it should be noted that particular embodiments include multiple iterations of a technique or multiple manifestations of a mechanism unless noted otherwise. Process descriptions or blocks in figures should be understood as representing modules, segments, or portions of code that include one or more executable instructions for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. Alternate implementations are included within the scope of embodiments of the present invention in which, for example, functions may be executed out of order from that show n or discussed, including substantially concurrently or in reverse order, depending on the functionality involved.
1. GENERAL OVERVIEW
Embodiments provide the end-to-end ability in an online web-based application to collect, process, and execute enterprise workflows securely across all kinds of computing devices. Certain embodiments use a brow ser extension, implemented as an enterprise-grade, secure software application or app that processes the metadata representing user events, clicks, and key presses, structuring the metadata so it can be queried by any Al model to resolve specific workflows autonomously. Browser extensions Chrome, Firefox, Edge, or other browsers can be implemented and can run the actions specified. Thus, in an embodiment, sensitive corporate data does not transfer from the browser extension to server-side components outside the browser, as only metadata is collected.
Thereafter, when a user operates the browser to access a web-based service, the browser extension is programmed to read relevant fields from a ticket, record, or other work structure provided by the web service and displayed via the browser. The browser extension can be programmed to deliver a prompt with instructions on how to use “High-Level Actions’" (HLA) with relevant information on the user or organization. The browser extension, alone or in networked communication with server-side software components, exchanging only metadata and not enterprise data, is programmed to calculate an embedding based on the above prompt and retrieve relevant HLAs via RAG-based LLM prompts based on the ticket, record, or other request and the organization’s specific details. Relevant HLAs are appended to the previous prompt along with the browser extension’s Action Space definition. The result is transmitted as a fully -formed prompt to an LLM, typically by a call to a well-known, public, or commercial API or endpoint call over a network. In response, the LLM delivers a response stating how to solve the ticket along with a sequence of actions to accomplish the goal. These actions include one or more of the steps defined in the HLAs. The browser extension automatically parses and executes the actions on the website, web service, or other networked resource. In this manner, common actions of agents or other users at web-based services can be fully automated while retaining complete user control to pause, accelerate, or modify actions that the browser extension executes automatically.
In one embodiment, one or more machine learning models are trained and programmed to support the automated creation and transmission of network requests to networked resources, such as the automatic submission of uniform resource locators (URLs) to websites or webbased applications, based on observing network traffic between an agent and one or more network resources and predicting sequences of network requests that represent repetitive workflows that are likely to be reused for different requesters with different transaction details. For example, in a customer service representative application, the disclosed technologies can observe network traffic representing repeated similar workflows of an agent with a ticketing system and one or more networked resources such as websites and use the observed data to train a machine learning model. The trained model then can execute an inference stage to predict workflows that the agent is likely to need or use again for different requesters who are associated with different transaction details. Predicted workflows associated with high confidence values can be digitally stored in a database as associations of data termed automations, then replayed on demand when a similar request occurs. When an automation is replayed, the system automatically transmits URLs or other networked requests to third-party applications, systems, or services to execute the tasks that had been observed in the training stage for customer- or request-specific transactions or data. In this manner, the disclosed technology can determine, create, and store definitions of repetitive workflows that can be replayed automatically, with or without guidance from the agent, to automate the repetitive workflows using customer- or request-specific transaction details or data. Model training can be based on data collected from thousands of agents working on thousands of instances of web applications, producing millions of operational events in the database. Model training or retraining also can be based on comparing manual actions that agents perform to predicted actions output from the model and determining a degree of accuracy of the output predictions.
An embodiment can be viewed as managing a digital agent’s clipboard supported with Al-based automations. The support agent has access to data for a ticket via an extension panel across all the tabs of their browser, with the extension panel continuously visible and superimposed over web pages of any tab. Thus, the agent never must return to the ticketing system to obtain data or perform basic actions. An embodiment executes to pm data from key fields to a ticket record, visually exposed in the extension panel, enabling the same data to be selected and applied to fields across systems. Embodiments also allow agents to pin fields across systems. The Al model leams the agent's behavior and suggests editable shortcuts. Workflows can be saved for powerful automations that can be used repeatedly.
Embodiments can be implemented in phases, stages, or multiple federated applications. For example, the first implementation phase can comprise agent automation and data. Agents use software programmed according to embodiments which leams their workflows and offers helpful automations. Managers and executives can access a powerful analytics suite with invaluable data across agent workflows. For example, analytics reports based on the data collected in embodiments can answer questions such as: How often are agents copying and pasting out of each system? How many tabs does each agent have open on average? Why is Agent A closing tickets faster than Agent B? How much time does each agent spend on each application? What are the top fields used in each system? Which agent’s workflow is the right one? How do hardware or network speeds affect agent performance? In this context, agents may work in dozens of software applications all day to complete work. A manager can call, email, or text team members to complete a task, but an individual contributor is always X number of clicks away from completing work. Therefore, such individuals should be able to instruct a computing system what to do without needing to click, copy, and paste as frequently as in past approaches.
The disclosed embodiments can also enhance workflow visibility by making records of one user’s relays and automations visible to multiple other users to evaluate efficiency or adherence to policies. In this manner, embodiments can help management identify non-compliant agent actions that may implicate losses or increased costs of a service business. Embodiments also promote the reduced use of computing resources and computing time by enabling the standardization of workflows based on objective data about what operations agents conduct and how they transfer data between systems. Agent training can be improved because managers acquire the right data to support agent improvements and can correct issues about which they were previously unaware, as embodiments can provide more accurate data points for coaching. Agents can find focus difficult when many tabs are open and extensive copy and paste is required to complete a ticket. Slower processes can frustrate customers, and manual data transfers are more prone to error.
In one embodiment, a browser extension passively observes and collects data representing user events such as mouse clicks, tab selections, or other online activity in webbased applications, which later can be used to extract valuable insights about the agent's use of the application. In this context, for any embodiment described in this disclosure, the term ‘"browser extension” refers broadly to a browser extension program, a browser plug-in. an application program that is hosted on an agent computer or user computer, or a browser that is natively programmed to, or executing browser-executable code programmed to, execute one or more programmatic calls to an application programming interface of a workflow automation application.
In an embodiment, an Al engine, as further described, can be programmed to combine data representing user behavior with task-mining processes to predict and optimize workflows while giving operational efficiency insights. Workflow analysis enables understanding how-agents resolve similar tickets differently, enabling optimization of resolution paths for computing resource efficiency and/or other different outcomes. Analyzing process differences between top and bottom-performing agents enables the constant optimization of team performance. Secure and correct processes can be determined based on granular process mining and data analysis to enhance data loss prevention and provide integration points and insights.
From the perspective of an agent using an agent computer, as further described, the machine learning models and artificial intelligence support of embodiments appear as a personal assistant that learns continuously from the agent’s inputs, signals, use, and behavior interacting with online applications, becoming more effective over time. In an embodiment, the machine learning model is trained based on all data from all agents of an organization to enable different agents of the same organization to benefit from all usage of all agents. Specific programmed AI/ML functions can include:
Smart data - suggests data based on ticket type and ongoing usage.
Relays - Creates shortcuts and automations after observation of user behavior.
Form filling - Auto fills multiple text fields contextually based on URL values.
Advanced workflows - Stringing together multiple relays for an advanced sequence. Text autocomplete - Analyzing all free-text comments of individuals and teams to complete responses.
Knowledge base suggestions - Cross-system knowledge base suggestions based on ticket type and previously used articles.
Embodiments of the disclosure encompass the subject matter of the following numbered clauses:
1. A workflow automation computer system comprising: one or more hardware processors; one or more network interfaces that are communicatively coupled to one or more internetw orks and capable of netw ork communication with a browser extension hosted on an agent computer, a relational database system, and a support ticket system; and one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media coupled to the one or more hardware processors and storing: one or more trained machine learning models; and one or more sequences of instructions which, when executed using one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to execute: receiving, from the browser extension, one or more browser event objects, extracting attribute values from the one or more browser event objects, and storing, in the relational database system, the one or more browser event objects and attribute values as one or more events of user action time series records; creating and storing in memory multiple trees having a depth = 2, each of the trees comprising a plurality of nodes corresponding to browser event objects and a plurality of edges that connect the nodes to one or more child event nodes while recording identifiers of source events for copy-type events; for a particular child event node that represents browser event objects corresponding to pasting or form-filling data, identifying an existing tree among the trees having a corresponding source node, and joining a root node of that existing tree to the particular child event node; grouping all trees rooted in navigation events identifying a particular hostname under a common root node that specifies a first navigation event; for the first navigation event having a second navigation event as a direct child node, deleting the second navigation event; deleting from the memory all the trees having the depth = 2; and in response to determining that a final tree has > 2 navigation events, creating and storing a relay based on the final tree.
2. The workflow automation computer system of clause 1, further comprising sequences of instructions which, when executed using the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to create and store the relay based on the final tree by executing a breadth-first traversal of the final tree, outputting a sequence of nodes as the traversal occurs, and storing an association of the identifiers of the nodes in the sequence as the relay.
3. The workflow automation computer system of clause 2, further comprising sequences of instructions which, when executed using the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to execute: receiving input from the agent computer specifying an invocation of the relay; and replaying the sequence of nodes of the relay to a browser hosted on the agent computer via the browser extension.
4. The workflow automation computer system of clause 2, further comprising sequences of instructions which, when executed using the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to execute: storing the association of the identifiers of the nodes in the sequence as a record in a training dataset in association with a copy of a corresponding user action time series record; training the machine learning model using the training dataset; during a new user session, storing a sequence of events based on the one or more browser event objects; executing an inference stage of the machine learning model over the sequence of events to output a predicted sequence of events corresponding to a predicted workflow of the user computer; and replaying the predicted sequence of events to a browser hosted on the agent computer via the browser extension.
5. The workflow automation computer system of clause 4, further comprising sequences of instructions which, when executed using the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to repeat the execution of the sequences of instructions corresponding to functions of clause 1 for 1,000 or more user sessions to store 1,000 or more records in the training dataset.
6. The workflow automation computer system of clause 5, further comprising sequences of instructions which, when executed using the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to store the sequence of events based on the one or more browser event objects by repeating the execution of receiving, from the browser extension, the one or more browser event objects.
7. The workflow automation computer system of clause 1, further comprising sequences of instructions which, when executed using the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to execute receiving, from the browser extension, the one or more browser event objects, and extracting the attribute values in part by the browser extension calling a browser event API of a browser hosted on the agent computer.
8. The workflow automation computer system of clause 1, further comprising sequences of instructions which, when executed using the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to execute: receiving input from the agent computer specifying an invocation of the relay; and replaying the relay to a browser hosted on the agent computer via the browser extension.
9. The workflow automation computer system of clause 1, each of the trees comprising a navigate event node with one or more edges directed to one or more child event nodes.
10. The workflow automation computer system of clause 1, further comprising sequences of instructions which, when executed using the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to execute adjusting pointers of the first navigation event and any child nodes of the second navigation event.
11. One or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media storing one or more trained machine learning models and one or more sequences of instructions which, when executed using one or more processors, the one or more processors being are communicatively coupled to one or more network interfaces that are communicatively coupled to one or more internetworks and capable of network communication with a browser extension hosted on an agent computer, a relational database system, and a support ticket system, cause the one or more processors to execute: receiving, from the browser extension, one or more browser event objects, extracting attribute values from the one or more browser event objects, and storing, in the relational database system, the one or more browser event objects and attribute values as one or more events of user action time series records; creating and storing in memory multiple trees having a depth = 2, each of the trees comprising a plurality of nodes corresponding to browser event objects and a plurality of edges that connect the nodes to one or more child event nodes while recording identifiers of source events for copy-type events; for a particular child event node that represents browser event objects corresponding to pasting or form-filling data, identifying an existing tree among the trees having a corresponding source node, and joining a root node of that existing tree to the particular child event node; grouping all trees rooted in navigation events identifying a particular hostname under a common root node that specifies a first navigation event; for the first navigation event having a second navigation event as a direct child node, deleting the second navigation event; deleting from the memory all the trees having the depth = 2; and in response to determining that a final tree has > 2 navigation events, creating and storing a relay based on the final tree.
12. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media of clause 11, further comprising sequences of instructions which, when executed using the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to create and store the relay based on the final tree by executing a breadth-first traversal of the final tree, outputting a sequence of nodes as the traversal occurs, and storing an association of the identifiers of the nodes in the sequence as the relay.
13. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media of clause 12, further comprising sequences of instructions which, when executed using the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to execute: receiving input from the agent computer specifying an invocation of the relay; and replaying the sequence of nodes of the relay to a browser hosted on the agent computer via the browser extension.
14. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media of clause 12, further comprising sequences of instructions which, when executed using the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to execute: storing the association of the identifiers of the nodes in the sequence as a record in a training dataset in association with a copy of a corresponding user action time series record; training the machine learning model using the training dataset; during a new user session, storing a sequence of events based on the one or more browser event objects; executing an inference stage of the machine learning model over the sequence of events to output a predicted sequence of events corresponding to a predicted workflow of the user computer; and replaying the predicted sequence of events to a browser hosted on the agent computer via the browser extension.
15. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media of clause 14, further comprising sequences of instructions which, when executed using the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to repeat the execution of the sequences of instructions corresponding to functions of clause 11 for 1,000 or more user sessions to store 1,000 or more records in the training dataset.
16. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media of clause 15. further comprising sequences of instructions which, when executed using the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to store the sequence of events based on the one or more browser event objects by repeating the execution of receiving, from the browser extension, the one or more browser event objects.
17. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media of clause 11, further comprising sequences of instructions which, when executed using the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to execute receiving, from the browser extension, the one or more browser event objects, and extracting the attribute values in part by the browser extension calling a browser event API of a browser hosted on the agent computer.
18. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media of clause 11, further comprising sequences of instructions which, when executed using the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to execute: receiving input from the agent computer specifying an invocation of the relay; and replaying the relay to a browser hosted on the agent computer via the browser extension.
19. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media of clause 11, each of the trees comprising a navigate event node with one or more edges directed to one or more child event nodes.
20. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media of clause 11, further comprising sequences of instructions which, when executed using the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to execute adjusting pointers of the first navigation event and any child nodes of the second navigation event.
1.1 DISTRIBUTED COMPUTER SYSTEM EXAMPLE FIG. 1 illustrates a distributed computer system showing the context of use and principal functional elements with which one embodiment could be implemented. In an embodiment, the computer system comprises components that are implemented at least partially by hardware at one or more computing devices, such as one or more hardware processors executing stored program instructions stored in one or more memories for performing the functions that are described herein. In other words, all functions described herein are intended to indicate operations that are performed using programming in a specialpurpose computer or general-purpose computer in various embodiments. FIG. 1 illustrates only one of many possible arrangements of components configured to execute the programming described herein. Other arrangements may include fewer or different components, and the division of work between the components may vary depending on the arrangement.
FIG. 1. and the other drawing figures and all of the description and claims in this disclosure, are intended to present, disclose, and claim a technical system and technical methods in which specially programmed computers, using a special-purpose distributed computer system design, execute functions that have not been available before to provide a practical application of computing technology to the problem of computer-implemented automation of workflows associated with networked resources. In this manner, the disclosure presents a technical solution to a technical problem, and any interpretation of the disclosure or claims to cover any judicial exception to patent eligibility7, such as an abstract idea, mental process, method of organizing human activity7, or mathematical algorithm, has no support in this disclosure and is erroneous.
An embodiment’s infrastructure can follow the following general design and operating principles. It interacts with external data, user interactions, and user events and data. Concerning external data, an embodiment can be programmed to connect to one or more external systems to present meaningful data to an agent. These operations can use existing browser tokens, normalize data received from APIs of external systems, and poll the external systems regularly to maintain updated data. Concerning user interactions, an embodiment maintains UI components the user can access across web tabs. An extension panel, autofill menu or suggestion panel, and on-page interactions support automatically tracking and entering data across systems. Smart pins of key data, relays, and other automations support similar operations. Concerning user events and data, an embodiment is programmed to gather data that can yield operational insights as users solve tickets. Embodiments capture copy, paste, and tab changes as events. The event data can be mined to derive relays and automations. The data can be used to generate an executive report.
Embodiments can also be programmed to support data security’ principles. Embodiments characterize data in three ways: customer data, metadata, and user behavior data. Customer data comprises content within business applications and stays local to an agent’s computer. Metadata comprises structural, operational, and workflow data from websites and systems and feeds into the Al core of the system. User behavior data describes how users interact with systems and optimize individually and collectively for future workflows.
In the example of FIG. 1, one or more user computers 102 and agent computers 110 are communicatively coupled, directly or indirectly, to a data communication network 106. Each user computer 102 and agent computer 110 can comprise a desktop computer, laptop computer, tablet computer, or another mobile computing device in various embodiments. For purposes of illustrating a clear example, FIG. 1 shows one user computer 102 and one agent computer 110, but other embodiments can support any number of such computers by changing the processing power of server-side elements.
Typically, the user computer 102 is associated with a consumer, customer, or another individual undertaking a transaction with a networked resource, including but not limited to a merchant website 108. The user computer 102 hosts or executes one or more application programs, including but not limited to a web browser by which the user computer 102 interacts with the merchant website 108 or a web-based application of the merchant website. For purposes of illustrating a clear example, a single merchant website 108 is shown, but other embodiments can comprise any number of networked resources like the merchant website. The merchant website 108 can comprise any system by which the user computer 102 can read information, view products and services, and/or purchase or order products or services. The merchant can offer or supply goods or services in any field, including consumer goods, travel, music and entertainment, industrial products, or other commodities. While the label “merchant” is used to illustrate one clear example, the merchant website 108 could also be a website, web application, or web server associated with a government agency, educational institution, nonprofit enterprise, or other entity or enterprise. Agent computer 110 typically is associated with a customer service representative (CSR), customer service agent, or other agent or representative whose role is to assist users of the user computer 102 in creating, reading, updating, or deleting one or more transactions associated with the merchant website 108. Each agent computer 110 hosts or executes a web browser 114 and a browser extension 116, the functions of which are further described in other sections herein. The agent computer 110 can download the browser extension 116 from an app store, from the workflow automation computer 120, or another networked server.
A support ticket system 130 is communicatively coupled to network 106 and to ticket database 132. The support ticket system 130 can comprise any support ticket system or ticketing system that is commercially available at the time of this writing. Examples include ZENDESK and SERVICENOW. The support ticket system 130 comprises a web-based application that the agent computer 110 can access and use via browser 114. The ticket database 132 stores many database records for issues, customer requests, tickets, and related data.
In an embodiment, a workflow automation computer 120 is communicatively coupled to network 106 and hosts and executes a workflow automation application 122, which is programmed to execute the features and functions that are described in the supplemental specification and certain other sections herein. The workflow automation application 122 is compatible with the browser extension 116 and can establish a network connection to the browser extension. In an embodiment, as the agent computer 110 is interacting with the support ticket system 130, the merchant website 108, and zero or more other networked resources, the browser extension 116 observes network traffic between the agent computer and other computers, captures signals representing the network traffic, and stores the signals or data derived from or based on the signals in the database 128. Traffic typically comprises URLs, data entered in fields or forms, form submission actions, selections of functions or options, or any other signal that the agent computer 110 can communicate or submit to the other computers shown in FIG. 1.
Further, the workflow automation application 122 is programmed to transmit data and presentation instructions to the browser extension 116 to cause the browser extension to create and display one or more windows, panels, or other graphical user interface (GUI) elements near, on, or over a conventional browser window of the browser 114. For example, as the agent computer 110 browses pages of the support ticket system 130 and/or the merchant website 108, the browser extension 116 is programmed to receive data from the workflow automation application 122 and present the data in one or more one or more windows, panels, or other GUI elements near, on, or over a window of the browser 114.
The workflow automation computer 120 also hosts, trains, and executes the inference stage of one or more machine learning models 124. In one embodiment, the workflow automation computer 120 and database 128 are programmed using multi-tenant techniques to support multiple independent enterprises or entities with segregated data storage. In such an embodiment, the workflow automation computer 120 can train and use a different ML model for each entity, with training data collected from all agent computers 110 of all agents associated with that entity. For example, event data is stored in training datasets with attribute values specifying the tenant, entity, or instance active in the web-based application at the time that an event occurred and used for training machine learning models. Importantly, tracking and using these attributes enables training models that are customized to particular tenants or instances while still leveraging community-wide data. Thus, as further described in other sections, when workflow automation computer 120 detects a partial or complete sequence of user events, the system can determine a suggestion of a workflow' corresponding to those events based on community data for similar events, even if the current user’s instance is different than all other instances for which the other similar events were collected. Therefore, even if the system has not learned a user action corresponding to a sequence of events for the current particular instance of the user, the system can suggest an action or workflow' corresponding to the user’s events based on knowledge derived from other event sequences of other instances.
In an embodiment, the workflow automation application 122 is programmed to create and store workflow training data in a workflow automation database 128 coupled with the workflow' automation computer 120. The training data comprises records of interactions of the agent computer 110 with the merchant website 108 and/or the support ticket system 130, which, taken together, represent a workflow of the agent computer to access a support ticket, act on the support ticket, and close the support ticket.
In an embodiment, the workflow automation application 122 is programmed to create and store a plurality' of automations 126 in the workflow automation database 128. Each of the automations 126 comprises a set of data and instructions describing or representing an observed w orkflow that can be replayed or repeated automatically. Each of the automations 126 can be created, in one embodiment, by accumulating a large quantify of the training data and then executing the inference stage of the machine learning model 124 to output predictions of a sequence of operations that are likely to represent a workflow, with a confidence value. If the confidence value is greater than a threshold value specified in a programmed constant or variable or a configuration file, then the sequence of operations can be stored in the workflow automation database 128 as a named or otherwise identified automation. The terms '‘flow” and “automation” are equivalent in this disclosure.
1.2 PRIMARY TICKETING SYSTEM
FIG. 3 illustrates a set of software applications with which an embodiment can interoperate. In one embodiment, the support ticket system 130 is communicatively coupled via one or more internetworks to multiple different networked servers, SaaS systems, and/or web application endpoints or APIs. Different embodiments can include one or more of the systems shown, as examples, in FIG. 3, including but not limited to one or more custom web apps 304, a knowledge management system 306, a chat system 308, an order management system 310, a customer relationship management (CRM) system 312, an access management system 314, an email system 316, and network and VPN servers or system 318. Each of the foregoing elements can be implemented in a different server computer, server process, virtual computing instance, or networked endpoint. In an embodiment, the agent computer 110 may periodically visit any of the systems in FIG. 3 using browser 114 as part of processing a ticket originated in the support ticket system 130, gathering information, or distributing information.
1.3 EXAMPLE INSTALLATION AND EXECUTION PROCESS
FIG. 4 illustrates a process of installing and executing a workflow automation program. At block 402, an agent installs a plugin on a browser. In an embodiment, agent computer 110 uses browser 114 to access a copy of the browser extension 116 at a website or server computer and installs the browser extension 116 in association with browser 114. For example, the browser 114 can open a network connection to workflow automation computer 120 and access web pages served from the workflow automation application that enables accessing a download link for the browser extension 116. The workflow automation computer 120 can be programmed as a networked file sen- er to serve copies of the browser extension 116 on demand in response to user input at agent computer 110 to select the link via the browser 114.
Block 404 represents the capability of workflow automation computer 120 to provide essential ticket data, sourced from the support ticket system 130. everywhere that an agent computer 110 executes with a compatible browser extension 116. Block 406 represents the capability of workflow automation computer 120 to intelligently task mine data in the support ticket system 130 to determine what tasks in other systems, such as the systems of FIG. 3, must occur to resolve or close tickets.
At block 408, in response to input from block 406 specifying one or more particular tasks, the workflow automation computer 120 is programmed to generate Al-based automations that can be replayed to execute the particular tasks in the systems of FIG. 3, merchant website 108 (FIG. 1), or other networked systems.
At block 410, during the execution of block 408, the workflow automation computer 120 is programmed to capture behavioral data representing mouse clicks, DOM element selections, copy or paste operations, and other machine interactions of the agent computer 110 with the merchant website 108 or the systems of FIG. 3. The behavioral data can be evaluated using an inference stage of a trained machine learning model to derive new automations.
FIG. 5 illustrates a process of executing an inference stage of a machine learning model to predict a sequence of operations for execution using web-based applications. In an embodiment, a support agent 502 uses agent computer 110, with browser 114 and browser extension 116 interacting with the workflow automation application 122, to form an input sequence of operations 504 with merchant website 108 or one or more of the systems of FIG.
3 that implements a task, such as “Can you create a FedEx shipping label for Jerry?” The workflow automation application 122 programmatically calls one of the machine learning models 124 to execute the inference stage over the input sequence. Sequence tokens 510 are routed to an encoder 512 and decoder 514, resulting in an output sequence 508 of tokens that express other operations to perform with merchant website 108 or one or more of the systems of FIG. 3. Output sequence 508 can be persistently stored in database 128 as one of the automations 126.
In this manner, sy stem 100 can be used to persistently store in networked digital storage the automations 126 of many kinds, all capable of replaying using multiple different networked systems to automatically execute tasks in the systems.
FIG. 6 illustrates four example user workflows involving interactions with and data transfers between multiple web-based applications. To illustrate clear examples, FIG. 6 illustrates four examples of sequences of operations with merchant website 108 or one or more of the systems of FIG. 3 that implement different tasks. In an embodiment, most sequences begin when the support agent 502 or agent computer 110 interoperates with the support ticket system 130 to view a previously created ticket or task.
1.3.1. For example, in the first sequence, at block 602, the agent is assigned a ticket specifying RETURN ORDER associated with a consumer's request to return an order of a tangible product or service. The commercially available ZENDESK system could be used at block 602, but other embodiments can interoperate with ticketing systems of other kinds, and using ZENDESK is not required.
At block 604, with the browser 114 communicatively coupled to ZENDESK as the support ticket system 130. the agent selects a set of data elements such as an order number, customer name, and customer email address. At block 606, the agent enters input to direct the browser 114 to connect to and open an order system, such as SHOPIFY. The agent signals the order system to transfer an order number and selects data such as a customer name, return address of a merchant, and customer address.
At block 608, the agent enters input to direct the browser 114 to connect to and open a shipping system, such as FEDEX and transfers the customer’s name, return address, and customer address. The agent selects data such as a shipping confirmation code. At block 610, the agent opens the order system to transfer the shipping confirmation code to confirm the return. At block 612, the agent directs the browser 114 to return to the support ticket system 130 to attach a shipping label to the open ticket, which causes the support ticket system to automatically generate and dispatch an email message to the customer. At block 614, the ticket is closed.
1.3.2. In a second sequence, at block 620, the agent computer 110 is assigned a ticket of the type NEED HELP INSTALLING. At block 622, browser 114 uses support ticket system 130 to select a part of a description from the ticket. At block 624, browser 114 opens a knowledge base and transfers part of the short description from the ticket, using it to find an article, and selects data from the article, such as a passage describing how to install an item and a URL of the article. At block 626, browser 114 opens the support ticket system 130 and transfers the installation passage and article URL to the ticket. At block 628, the ticket is closed.
1.3.3. In a third sequence, at block 630. the agent computer 110 is assigned a ticket of the type CHANGE ADDRESS FOR RECENT ORDER. At block 632, the agent uses the browser 114 to select data such as an order number and new address from the ticket in the support ticket system 130. At block 634, browser 114 opens the order management system and transfers the order number. Input to browser 114 selects a shipping confirmation code from the order. At block 636, input to browser 114 causes the browser to connect to the shipping system, and agent 502 uses agent computer 110 to enter signals to transfer the shipping confirmation code. The agent finds the shipment and edits the details to transfer the new address. The agent selects a new arrival window, which the shipping system reports. At block 638, the agent directs browser 114 to the support ticket system 130 and transfers the shipping confirmation code and new arrival window to update the ticket. At block 639, the ticket is closed.
1.3.4. In a fourth sequence, at block 640, the agent computer 110 is assigned a ticket of the type UNCLEAR WARNING MESSAGE. At block 642, the agent is unsure how to resolve the ticket, so the agent selects a ticket description in the support ticket system 130. At block 644, the browser 114 transfers the description into a ticket search field and provides input to select a search function. In response, the support ticket system 130 finds two similar cases with a knowledge base link attached to each of them. The browser 114 receives input to select one of the links. In response, browser 114 redirects to the knowledge base at block 646 and displays an article. Input via browser 114 selects data consisting of the text of a relevant passage and the article's URL. At block 648, browser 114 opens the support ticket system 130 and transfers the relevant passage and article URL to the ticket. At block 650, the ticket is closed.
2. IMPLEMENTATION EXAMPLE - FORMING TRAINING DATA FOR MACHINE LEARNING MODELS TO SUPPORT CREATING AUTOMATIONS
2.1 PROCESS FLOW
FIG. 7 A illustrates a program flow of one embodiment of creating and storing data useful in workflow automations and training machine learning models. FIG. 7A presumes that a browser executes and that data collection instructions execute as a browser extension or application.
In an embodiment, the process of FIG. 7A is programmed at block 702 to call a browser event API to detect a new browser event object. The browser event object is associated with or results from a user interaction with an element of a web page of a SaaS application. Section 2.2 below identifies examples of browser events that can be captured by programming the browser extension 116 in one embodiment and the property values or attributes ('‘properties”) that the browser extension detects and stores for specified types of events.
At block 704. the process is programmed to receive the browser event object. At block 706, the process is programmed to extract attribute values from the browser event object and store the attribute values as the next event of a user action time series record.
At block 708, the process is programmed to test whether the user session is complete. If the test of block 708 is FALSE or negative or the equivalent, then control transfers back to block 702 to repeat the subprocess of block 702, 704, 706, or other events of the user session. If the test of block 708 is TRUE or positive or the equivalent, control transfers to block 710. At block 710, the process is programmed to create and store multiple trees having a depth of two, each of the trees comprising a navigate event node with one or more edges directed to one or more child event nodes while recording identifiers of source events for copy-ty pe events.
At block 712. the process is programmed, where a leaf event comprises pasting or formfilling data into a destination, finding an existing tree having a corresponding source node, and joining the root of that existing tree to the leaf event.
At block 714, the process is programmed to group all the trees rooted in navigation events that identify the same hostname under a common root node specifying the first such navigation event. At block 716, the process is programmed to execute when a first navigation event has a second navigation as a direct child node, deleting the second navigation event, adjusting pointers of the first navigation event, and adjusting pointers of the first navigation event and any child nodes of the second navigation event. At block 717, the process is programmed to delete trees with depth = 2.
At block 718, the process is programmed to test whether the final tree has more than two navigation events. If the result of block 718 is NO, FALSE, negative, or the equivalent, then control transfers to block 724, at which point the process returns control to a calling process or terminates normally. Under the conditions that cause control to arrive at block 724, creating a stored automation sequence is not possible or useful. If the result of block 718 is YES, TRUE, positive, or the equivalent, then at block 720, the process is programmed to execute a breadth-first traversal of the final tree, output a sequence of nodes as the traversal occurs, and store a named association of identifiers of the nodes in the sequence as a relay or stored automaton. In this context, a “relay” may refer to an association of digitally stored data specifying an action, a field, an application, and the next action or application. Examples of relays can include Open Employee ID in Okta; Autofill from Pin Pad in FedEx; Attach Label PDF in Zendesk; Create Jira ticket from ServiceNow; Post Knowledge URL to Slack. A stored automation can combine relays as a named or specified set. An example of an automation is: Name: "Create a FedEx shipping label/’ Relays: Access Zendesk ticket; access Shopify to find an address and copy the address; access FedEx to autofill the address and get a shipping label; access Zendesk to attach the shipping label and generate a response to the customer.
Thus, block 720 enables automatically creating and storing an automation sequence based on an observed, repeated sequence of user operations. Control then transfers to block 722, where the process is programmed to receive and respond to user input specifying an invocation of the relay or stored automation by replaying the sequence of nodes of the relay or stored automation to the browser. Block 722 can be executed at any time after block 720, and separation in time from seconds to weeks is possible in different use cases.
Asynchronously, with or without executing block 722, the process is programmed to continue from block 720 at FIG. 7B. FIG. 7B illustrates a program flow of one embodiment of training a machine learning model and executing the inference stage of the machine learning model. In an embodiment, the process is programmed at block 730 to store the association of identifiers of the nodes in the sequence as a record in a training dataset, paired with a copy of a corresponding user action time series record.
At block 732, the process is programmed to repeat the execution of FIG. 7A and block 730 for 1,000 or more user sessions to store 1,000 or more records in the training dataset. The number 1,000 is provided as a lower bound to indicate the model training contemplated by FIG. 7B is not practical to execute manually, in the human mind, or in another non-automated manner. Other embodiments could execute training based on many more records of user sessions. At block 734, the process is programmed to train a machine-learning model using the training dataset.
At block 736, in a new session, the process is programmed to execute blocks 702, 704, and 706 of FIG. 7A, to store a sequence of events, denoted e for convenience or as shorthand. At block 738, the process is programmed to execute the inference stage of the trained machinelearning model over the sequence of e events to output a predicted sequence of events corresponding to a predicted workflow of the user. At block 740, the process is programmed to replace the predicted sequence of events in the browser. In this manner, machine-learning techniques can be used to observe user action, store a large set of database records representing a training set, and train an ML model on the training data. Later, at runtime during another user session, the user execution of a set of operations can be used to infer other events or sequences that should occur next and to replay those events or sequences automatically. Consequently, a user of a software application can initiate only a few manual operations and then allow the machine to complete a workflow automatically, interacting via the browser with the same software application.
FIG. 7C illustrates a sequence of user actions corresponding to multiple sub-tasks in multiple web-based applications that can be captured as a single automation in training data to train a machine learning model. An example workflow 745 begins at block 750 at which an agent is assigned a case in a ticketing system to process an order return. To act on this case, the agent interacts with browser 114 of agent computer 110 (FIG. 1) to conduct a first set of operations 752, comprising copying a primary email address in a ZENDESK ticket, copying a name in Zendesk, copying an order number in Zendesk, and opening a page in a SHOPIFY application based on the primary' email.
The agent then switches applications using the brow ser 114 and conducts a second set of operations 754, comprising copying an address from Shopify, which could include individual copy operations for street name, city, ZIP code, and phone number. The agent next directs the browser 114 to a FEDEX application and conducts a third set of operations 756, comprising auto filling an address and copying a tracking number that the FedEx application generates. The agent returns browser 114 to Shopify and Zendesk to conduct a fourth set of operations 758, including auto-filling the FedEx tracking number in Shopify and applying a macro in Zendesk. Finally, at operation 760, the agent attaches a shipping label PDF to the ticket in Zendesk and closes the ticket at operation 762.
The complete sequences of operations of w orkflow- 745 require numerous mouse clicks and context switching between different applications. Embodiments of the present disclosure can capture all the operations that have been described for this example as a single automation, enabling it to be replayed via the browser 114 with all the different applications to move data more rapidly betw een the applications to complete a task or ticket. Furthermore, the techniques of the present disclosure can capture variations in the foregoing workflow. Thus, at different times, depending on the nature of a ticket, an agent who is assigned a case in a ticketing system to process an order return could complete the task using a variation of the steps shown above. The techniques of the present disclosure can capture and automate each variation of the same general task by observing differences in web page navigation, UI element selection, copy operations, paste operations, auto-fill operations, and so forth.
2.2 EXAMPLE EVENT OBJECTS
TABLE 1 illustrates examples of events that the system can be programmed to detect and act on.
2.3 EXAMPLE PROPERTIES
In an embodiment, the default properties included on every event are: Active Ticket ID, Browser, Browser Version, Current Pinpad ID, Distinct ID, Domain, Event Type, Extension Version, Favicon URL. Field ID (ID of related pin), Instance, Nth-Child Selector, OS, Placeholder, Timestamp, UID, URL, and URL Host. In an embodiment, the default event metadata properties, which are included when available from browser or DOM events, are Meta Event Name, Source, Timestamp, and Workstream Variables. One or more of the foregoing can be captured optionally.
In an embodiment, the properties obtained for a cunent tab object are Active. Audible, Auto Discardable, Discarded, Favicon URL, Group ID, Heigh, Highlighted, ID, Incognito, Index, Muted Info, Muted, Pinned, Selected, Status, Title, URL, Width, and Window Id.
In an embodiment, the default element metadata properties, which are included when available, are: autocomplete (“on” or “off’), class, label, id, placeholder, name, data-* properties, and any other attribute of the target element. Optionally, these properties can include fieldID (ID of a related pin), innerText, and label.
Workstream selectors can be captured as an array of selectors in priority or specificity order. These are available on events that have a “target” element.
TABLE 2 illustrates examples of event attributes, values, and descriptions of the attributes, for one embodiment; other embodiments can define different attributes of events. TABLE 2 - EXAMPLE EVENT ATTRIBUTES
3. EXECUTION EXAMPLE USING GRAPHICAL USER INTERFACE FIG. 8A illustrates examples of an extension panel, a relay panel, and a suggested flows panel that the browser extension may be programmed to generate and display over a web page of a web-based application. In an embodiment, the browser extension 116 is programmed to generate and display one or more of the extension panels, relay panels, and suggested flows panels superimposed over a GUI or web page of a web-based application.
In an embodiment, an extension panel 820 comprises a ticket identifier 821, a description panel 822, and a dynamic, extensible pin pad 824 comprising a plurality of data panels 826, 828. 830, and 832. In an embodiment, description panel 822 displays metadata associated with a particular stored automation, such as a description, state, and task type. In the example, the description is “Can I please exchange this item? I received the wrong size.” The state is “Open,” and the task type is “Incident.” Other embodiments can use other specific data values. Embodiments can streamline how an agent moves between tabs; the browser extension 116 is programmed to always display the extension panel 820, allowing users to access key ticket information regardless of the web application they are viewing. Consequently, users do not need to reopen a ticketing application to obtain the information or perform standard actions to resolve a ticket.
As further described, the browser extension 116 is programmed to automatically pin key fields and field values to the extension panel 820 without user action. Embodiments can be programmed to update a machine learning model based on user action over time to effectively leam what the user pins and uses more often. Pinned fields and values can be collected and reused across systems or web applications without specific integration with those systems or applications. In an embodiment, each field shown in the extension panel 820 is an active hyperlink so that a browser tab from which the field came can be accessed just by clicking the field in the extension panel. In response, the browser extension 116 is programmed to cause the browser to change focus to the correct tab of the application associated with the field.
In an embodiment, a relay panel 840 comprises a title bar 842 having a search box 844, and a relay subpanel 848 that displays one or more previously defined relays 846. Each of the relays 846 comprises an automation that the browser extension 116 has learned, alone or in conjunction with the workflow automation application 122 and machine learning model 124 (FIG. 1). Each relay 846 comprises a stored association of actions, fields, and applications that can be selected to run a repetitive operation on behalf of the user. Consequently, user selection of a relay 846 can execute an action in a web application using a single click rather than the many to dozens of clicks of prior approaches, as noted in the Background section.
Over time, execution of the workflow automation application 122 and machine learning model 124 can instruct the browser extension 116 to create and store one or more flows based on the relays 846. Thus, each automation represented in a relay can become more advanced over time under programmatic control of an advanced, user-driven, Al-powered robotic process automation engine consisting of the workflow automation application 122 and machine learning model 124. By selecting a flow in the suggested flow panel, the agent can allow the browser extension 116 to execute fully automated, complete workflows.
In an embodiment, a suggested flow panel 850 comprises a search box 852 and one or more flow rows 854 that identify flows. Each row 854 comprises a selection widget 856, a name 858, and a configuration widget 860. The selection widget 856 is programmed to receive input from the agent computer 110 specifying whether to use or activate a flow corresponding to the name 858. When a row is not selected, the selection widget 856 can be clicked to expand and show a flow description. The configuration widget 860 is programmed to receive input from the agent computer 110 to change the applications, fields, and/or actions of a flow. In an embodiment, the suggested flow panel 850 also comprises a CREATE FLOW or similarly named widget 859, which, when selected, initiates a dialog, wizard flow, or series of menus and panels to enable the agent computer 110 to manually define a flow.
In an embodiment, all the data visualized in the extension panel 820, relay panel 840, and suggested flow panel 850 corresponds to data digitally stored in rows of tables of a relational table schema of the database 128. For example, for the extension panel 820, the data shown in ticket identifier 821 can correspond to a row in a master ticket table, the description panel 822 can comprise attribute values of that row, and the pin pad 824 can correspond to a plurality of pointers in the same row to other rows in a data panel table that store the data for the plurality of data panels 826, 828, 830, and 832, where each of the data panels corresponds to a different row of the data panel table. Similarly, the relay panel 840 can be backed by a relay table in the database 128, where the relay table has a plurality of rows, each corresponding to one of the relays 846. and where those rows store attribute values identifying the actions, fields, and applications that comprise a relay. Further, a flow table in database 128 can back the suggested flow panel 850, where each row in the flow table stores attribute values for row 854, such as a plurality of pointers to rows in the relay table. Thus, a flow corresponds to a stored association of a plurality7 of the relays 846 as previously described.
FIG. 8B illustrates an example of a graphical user interface of a web-based software application in association with an extension panel that implements aspects of the present disclosure. For purposes of illustrating a clear example, FIG. 8B shows a GUI 802 that has been generated via browser interaction with the commercially available ZENDESK application, but other embodiments can interoperate with other web-based or SaaS-based online applications that browsers can use. GUI 802 comprises a toolbar 804, a task panel 806, a chat panel 808. an interaction panel 810. and a SUBMIT button 812. Other applications may offer different visual or graphical panels, tools, or widgets.
In the example, the toolbar 804 comprises a plurality of vertically aligned buttons, links, or other widgets which, when selected using a pointing device, access main functions of the platform such as ticket management, user management, statistical data, and configuration functions. In an embodiment, task panel 806 identifies a particular request or ticket that has been assigned to a customer service representative or another user for action, with basic details about the requester, user accounts that are assigned to or following the ticket, tags specifying the nature of the ticket, ticket type, priority, and linked issues. In an embodiment, chat panel 808 provides a workspace for conducting a live electronic chat dialog with a customer or other party that submitted a request or needs assistance. The chat panel 808 can be associated with a reply panel 809 that is programmed to receive a written reply from the agent or user who is interacting with the customer or requester. In an embodiment, interaction panel 810 comprises widgets, data, and selectable elements that are programmed for interacting with other representatives concerning the customer issue. The SUBMIT button 812 can be programmed to persistently save a record of the state of the ticket in a digital database.
In an embodiment, an extension panel 820 is visually displayed superimposed over and floating on the GUI 802. Browser extension 116 (FIG. 1) generates and displays the extension panel 820 using browser functions or services. In an embodiment, browser extension 116 is programmed to display the extension panel 820 with a description panel 822 and a dynamic, extensible pin pad 824 comprising a plurality of data panels 826, 828, 830, and 832. In an embodiment, description panel 822 displays metadata associated with a particular stored automation, such as a description, state, and task type. In the example, the description is “Can T please exchange this item? I received the wrong size.” The state is “Open,” and the task type is “Incident.” Other embodiments can use other specific data values.
In an embodiment, the pin pad 824 is programmed to show, associate, and store together a plurality of data items that have been captured, copied, or pasted from different parts of a form or workflow that the GUI 802 or its underlying application exposes or provides. Each data panel 826, 828, 830, 832 can have a different size or number of attributes and values and a different title. For example, data panel 826 is titled “Ticket #3” and specifies a requester, data panel 828 is titled “Jame Smith” and specifies an email address, data panel 830 is titled “Customer: Jane Smith” and contains address details for the customer, and data panel 832 is titled “Detailed Tracking” and contains a tracking number associated with a shipper application such as the online FEDEX application. Each data item in a data panel can represent a user interaction with a task or workflow within the GUI 802 that could be related, reused, or part of a sequence of events or actions associated with completing the task or workflow.
Thus, embodiments are programmed to streamline how an agent moves between tabs. The extension panel 820 is automatically displayed superimposed over web pages that the agent browses with a w eb brow ser, so the extension panel is omnipresent during the processing of a request or ticket. In an embodiment, key information associated with a ticket in an issue tracking or ticket management system is associated together and digitally stored in a ticket record in the database 128. The extension panel 820 graphically displays or visualizes a ticket record and/or the key information associated with a ticket. Consequently, after browsing from the ticketing system to another application, the user never needs to reopen the ticketing system to copy information or perform the standard actions to resolve a ticket. Instead, the key information is associated with the ticket record and shown in the extension panel 820 as one or more pinned fields, values, attributes, or panels, and data can be selected from the extension panel and filled automatically into a field of another application.
In an embodiment, key fields are automatically visually pinned in the extension panel on behalf of the user as the user interacts with the ticketing system. Embodiments are programmed to leam from agent interactions with the GUI of a SaaS application over time so that the fields adjust based on what the user pins and users more often. Further, embodiments are programmed to suggest editable shortcuts driven by an Al-powered RPA engine. This automates steps in the workflow; such as “open Tracking ID in FedEx.” An automation can execute repetitive operations on behalf of the user to turn a multi-click process into one click. Workflows can be saved for powerful automations for reuse. The ticket can be resolved without returning to the ticketing system. Pins can be collected and reused across systems with no integrations needed. Also, fields and systems are hyperlinked, so tab navigation becomes seamless directly from the panel.
FIG. 9 illustrates an example of initially creating pinned data associated with user action in an application. GUI 802 has the same elements as shown in FIG. 9, and the extension panel 820 is displayed superimposed over the GUI. In this example, the assigned agent has recently begun processing a ticket in Zendesk. When the agent accesses the ticket in Zendesk by browsing a web page, the browser 114 automatically creates and stores a document object model (DOM) in the memory of agent computer 110 after downloading HTML for the web page and rendering the web page with GUI 802. The browser extension 116 is programmed to detect data displayed on the screen by programmatically reading and traversing the DOM and to automatically instantiate and display the extension panel 820 based on data obtained from the DOM. For example, the browser extension 116 is programmed to automatically assign the name “Ticket #1” to data panel 902 of the extension panel 820 based on finding “Incident #1” in the DOM. In an embodiment, the attributes of the top-most data panel 902 of extension panel 820 correspond to a record of a ticket or automation in database 128 (FIG. 1). The browser extension 116 is also programmed to create and store a second data panel 904 with a description of the ticket, and to create and store a pin pad 824 in association with the ticket represented in data panel 902. The extension panel 820 can also show one or more other data panels 906 that are automatically populated with attributes and values based on traversing the DOM.
FIG. 10A illustrates an example of a browser extension generating and displaying suggestions of pinned data for entry in fields of a web-based application. In an embodiment, the browser extension 116 is programmed to determine, for each web-based application that the browser 114 accesses, based on the DOM of each web page, one or more form fields or UI widgets of the web page that may correspond to data items in pinned data panels of the extension panel 820. If a match is found, the brow ser extension 116 is programmed to generate and display a suggestion panel that identifies values that could be automatically entered in the form field or UI widget.
In the example of FIG. 10A. browser 114 has navigated to a web page of the Shopify online application, which has returned dynamic HTML that the browser has rendered as the web page 1000. In an embodiment, the web page 1000 comprises a menu bar 1002, a segment panel 1004, a customer panel 1006, and a search box 1008. In an embodiment, the menu bar 1002 comprises a vertically arranged set of links, buttons, or other UI widgets that, when selected, cause the application to provide access to a respective plurality of different named functions or actions. The segment panel 1004 comprises a GUI widget for selecting a segment of customers for inspection and processing. Attributes of the selected segment can be displayed in the customer panel 1006, and the search box 1008 can be displayed near table 1009, showing one or more records of customers that are in the selection specified via the widget of the segment panel.
In the example, an email address 1010 can be entered in the search box 1008. The browser extension 116 is programmed to determine from the DOM that the search box 1008 can receive an email address. In response, based on data panels of the extension panel 820 or other data in the database 128, the browser extension 116 is programmed to generate and display a suggestion panel 1012 having one or more data panels 1014 corresponding to data panels of the extension panel. The effect of the suggestion panel 1012 is to display data available to the browser extension 116 that could be fdled automatically into the search box 1008. In an embodiment, the browser extension 116 chooses the value representing the best match of the available data to the DOM element corresponding to the search box 1008 and automatically fills in a value like the email address 1010. In an embodiment, the suggestion panel 1012 is displayed just below7 or otherwise near the field corresponding to search box 1008; screen position data can also be obtained programmatically from the DOM. With this arrangement, the agent can rapidly view values in the data panels 1014 of the suggestion panel 1012 and then click on one of the values to select that value. In response, the browser extension 116 is programmed to automatically fill the selected value in the field for search box 1008.
FIG. 10B illustrates an example of a browser extension generating and displaying suggestions of pinned data for entry in fields of a web-based application different from that of FIG. 10A. In FIG. 10B, the browser 114 of agent computer 110 has navigated to and accessed the FedEx online application, which has returned dynamic HTML that has been rendered as a GUI 1020. In the example, the GUI 1020 has a shipping address panel 1014 programmed with form fields to enter a name, company, address, and related data, which the FedEx application can use to generate a shipping label. The browser extension 116 is programmed to display the extension panel 820 superimposed over the web page with GUI 1020, and the extension panel has data similar to the previous examples.
In the example of FIG. 10B, under program control, the browser extension 116 has identified, from the DOM of the web page, a field 1026 titled “Y our name” that should receive a data value from one of the data panels pinned to the extension panel 820. The browser extension 116 is programmed to generate and display, superimposed over the web page 1000, the suggestion panel 1012 with one or more data panels 1014 of values that could fit the field 1026. In an embodiment, the suggestion panel 1012 is displayed just below or otherwise near field 1026; screen position data can also be obtained programmatically from the DOM. With this arrangement, the agent can rapidly view values in the data panels 1014 of the suggestion panel 1012 and then click on one of the values to select that value. In response, the browser extension 116 is programmed to automatically fill the selected value in the field 1026.
In this manner, the browser extension 116 can dramatically reduce the work of an agent who must move between different applications to conduct the work associated with a single issue, ticket, or request originating in a different first system, like Zendesk. Rather than constantly re-entering the same data values in multiple different systems necessary to resolve a request or ticket or repeatedly copying and pasting values, the browser extension 116 automatically manages and executes the process of determining which values should be pinned to a ticket record represented in the extension panel 820 and which values should be suggested for automatic filling into fields of a new web page.
FIG. 10C illustrates another GUI with the extension panel and an automatic data update in the extension panel. As with prior examples, the extension panel 820 is displayed superimposed over a web page 1030 of the FedEx system. In a previous step of the shipping process, the FedEx system generated a shipping label confirmation page with a tracking identifier. In the example of FIG. 10C, the tracking identifier 1034 has been automatically pinned to the extension panel 820. Assume that the customer received a shipping label and returned goods to a merchant as an extension of the previously discussed examples. The agent could investigate the status of a ticket and direct the browser 114 to the web page 1030 of FIG.
10C and receive a suggestion to enter the tracking identifier 1034 in a search field. In response, the FedEx system would respond with the tracking history and delivery status of a completed delivery from the customer, as seen on web page 1030. In this manner, the extension panel 820 provides a visualization of persistently stored ticket data that can be recalled and reused in different applications or web pages without manual data re-entry.
FIG. 11 illustrates the GUI of FIG. 8B and FIG. 9 with updates to the extension panel and a reply from the agent. FIG. 11 represents a state in processing the request or ticket at which the agent has created a return address label for the customer. In response to creating a return label via the FedEx online application, the browser extension 116 has automatically detected the tracking ID and URL of a return label and updated the extension panel 820 in data panel 832 by pinning the URL 1104 of the return label. Therefore, in reply panel 809, the agent has composed, but not sent, a reply message to the customer specifying the URL for the return label. The URL can be placed in the reply message of reply panel 809 automatically by selecting the pinned value of the URL 1104.
FIG. 12 illustrates the GUI of FIG. 11 after the agent has sent the reply message to the customer. In this example, reply panel 809 shows the reply message 1102 as sent and not in the composing state. At this stage, the underlying ticket in the Zendesk system has transitioned to a Closed state. In response, the browser extension 116 is programmed to close the extension panel 820 and display a user-specific panel 1202 comprising a pin pad 1204. “User-specific” means that panel 1202 shows data customized for the user account of the then-current agent or other user who is interacting with the application represented in GUI 802. In an embodiment, the pin pad 1204 comprises a plurality of pinned data panels 1206, 1208 that can show one or more URLs linked to knowledge base data or support information. In this manner, the user retains visual context and awareness that the browser extension 116 is running rather than seeing nothing. In an embodiment, the knowledge base data comprise one or more crosssystem knowledge base suggestions based on the current ticket type and articles that the agent assigned to the current ticket previously used.
The content of pin pad 1204 can be specified via configuration data of the workflow automation application 122, records in database 128, or other sources. It can vary based on the agent, user account, agent computer 110, or enterprise in which the agent or user works.
FIG. 13A, FIG. 13B, FIG. 13C, and FIG. 13D illustrate examples of graphical user interfaces that can be used in another embodiment. Referring first to FIG. 13 A, in an embodiment, a web page 1302 corresponding to a new record of an incident has been generated by the ServiceNow application and rendered in a browser. The terms incident, ticket, case, and record can be interchangeable for purposes of the present description and the implementation of an embodiment. The web page 1302 comprises a plurality of widgets 1304 that are programmed to receive basic metadata details for an incident and description widgets 1306. A search panel 1310 displays results of related incidents based on the description in the incident and description widgets 1306. The specific form of the web page 1302 can vary in different embodiments and as the ServiceNow application is updated or changed by its provider. Thus, the specific elements of web page 1302 are not critical.
Under the control of the workflow7 automation application 122, an extension panel 1320 is displayed superimposed over the web page 1302. The extension panel 1320 comprises an incident identifier panel 1322. a link 1323. and a workflow panel having a plurality of rows 1324. The incident identifier panel 1322 comprises an incident identifier value that has been automatically populated from the widgets 1304. The link 1323 comprises a hyperlink identifying the same incident and, when selected via user input, redirects the browser 114 to the web page 1302 if a different web page is being displayed in the browser. Each row of the plurality of rows 1324 corresponds to a different workflow that has been previously identified, based on user events, and stored. Thus, each of the row s 1324 corresponds to a workflow that the workflow7 automation application 122 has automatically learned based on receiving and analyzing events that the extension panel 1320 has detected and relayed. Examples of processes for automatic, programmed learning of workflows are described herein in other sections.
Workflow7 1326A is labeled “Deactivate user” and corresponds to a stored series of steps or actions in one or more web-based applications that collectively result in deactivating a user. Assume, for purposes of clearly explaining one operational example, and not as a limitation, that the workflow automation application 122 detects user input to select the workflow' 1326A of the extension panel 1320. In response, the extension panel 1320 is programmed to update automatically to the form of the extension panel 1322 seen in FIG. 13B and to initiate replaying the stored actions and events of the workflow 1326A by programmatically instructing the browser 114 to access one or more web pages, enter data in widgets, select buttons or controls, or execute other functions of a w eb page that the browser is capable of executing.
The first step of the workflow 1326A is to execute an action in the Okta web-based application. Therefore, as an example, FIG. 13B shows a web page 1312 that the Okta application has generated and the browser 114 has rendered in response to a redirection instruction from the extension panel 1322 under the control of the workflow 1326A. The web page 1312 can comprise any combination of widgets corresponding to the functions of the web page, such as a list 1316 of links to functions, buttons 1318, and a text entry box 1314. In an embodiment, the extension panel 1322 comprises the same incident identifier as in extension panel 1320, the same link 1323 as in the prior extension panel, and an expanded workflow 1326B comprising a list of actions 1328 corresponding to the workflow 1326 A. In this manner, the extension panel 1322 enables a user to see the forthcoming actions that the workflow will execute automatically. Further, in an embodiment, as the actions of the list of actions 1328 execute, the specific action that is currently executing is highlighted in the list.
The automatic execution of actions of a workflow can include instructing the browser 114 to access and render different web pages of the same application or a different application. Referring now to FIG. 13C, in an embodiment, the actions 1328 of the expanded workflow 1326B or extension panel 1322 have caused the browser to access and display a second web page 1330 of the Okta application. In an embodiment, the second web page 1330 comprises the list 1316 of links to functions, data 1332 identifying a user for which a deactivation operation is proceeding, and a pull-down menu widget 1334. In the example of FIG. 13C, the actions 1328 of the expanded workflow 1326B or extension panel 1322 have caused the browser to automatically, programmatically select the pull-down menu widget 1334, thereby rendering a list 1336 of selectable functions, and to automatically, programmatically select a Deactivate function 1337. In response, the extension panel 1322 generates and displays a step message 1338 on the second web page 1330; the step message specifies the step of workflow 1326B that the system is currently executing.
Referring now to FIG. 13D, in an embodiment, the actions 1328 of the expanded workflow 1326B or extension panel 1322, specifically selecting the Deactivate function 1337, have caused the brow ser to access and display a third w eb page 1340 of the Okta application. In an embodiment, the third web page 1340 comprises a list 1316 of links to functions and a status value 1342 confirming that the specified user has been deactivated. In an embodiment, the actions 1328 of the expanded w orkflow- 1326B or extension panel 1322 conclude by causing rendering and displaying a second step message 1344 superimposed over the third web page 1340. In this example, the second step message 1344 indicates that the selected workflow is complete, and the user can close the corresponding ticket or take other actions. FIG. 14 A, FIG. 14B, and FIG. 14C illustrate examples of programmed processes, of one embodiment, to train and use machine-learning models to automatically leam workflows in web-based applications from user events and to generate suggestions of workflows in response to sequences of user events or natural language input. In one embodiment, the workflow automation application 122 is programmed to execute the steps of FIG. 14A, FIG.
14B, and FIG. 14C. Referring first to FIG. 14A, in one embodiment, at block 1402, the workflow' automation application 122 is programmed to receive a plurality7 of user events. For purposes of one clear example, user events are labeled A, B, C, and D. User events are collected automatically via the extension panel 820 as users navigate a w ebsite to accomplish a task. Examples have been given previously but can include click event, paste event, and navigation event. In the aggregate, the system can analyze the usage of many different users on a specific website. An example of this would be a support agent responding to a ticket and resetting a user’s password. All events are captured initially as unstructured data, generally consisting of a timestamp, a w ebsite or URL, and an event type. Event data can be stored in the database 128.
At block 1404, the workflow automation application 122 is programmed to execute raw data clustering. For example, events A and B are assigned to cluster 1406, and events C and D are assigned to cluster 1408. Clustering can comprise inspecting all events of all users represented in the database for the same website and determining which sets of events occur repeatedly and, therefore, appear similar. In an embodiment, each cluster comprises from two to 10 events that have been observed, across multiple users, as repeatedly used in the same sequence and therefore associated.
At block 1409, the workflow automation application 122 is programmed to execute action analysis. Using data analysis at block 1409, the workflow7 automation application 122 is programmed to determine that certain combinations of user events are equivalent to a specific user action. For example, events A and B are found by analysis to be used to look up a user by the user identifier. Those events can be digitally stored in association with a named workflow titled “Lookup user by ID,” represented in FIG. 14A as user action 1410. Or, events C and C are found by analysis to be used to reset a user’s password and can be stored as a workflow-named “Reset user password by id,” corresponding to user action 1412. User actions 1410, 1412 correspond to higher-level views of sequences of events and are roughly equivalent to API calls. An association of a sequence of otherwise unstructured events to a user action comprises an item of structured data that can be stored separately in the database 128 and used to solve future problems.
In some embodiments, clustering at block 1404 and action analysis at block 1409 could be implemented by executing the inference stage of a commercial, trained, web application action-based machine-learning model over the events of block 1402 rather than using a programmed clustering algorithm and analysis steps. In some cases, supervised learning may be needed to label training data for such a model to ensure accurate results in classifying sequences of events as actions; supervised learning can be used to kick-start a model to achieve good results followed by unsupervised learning over time as further described for other blocks of the flow diagram. Or, one or more of the clustering at block 1404 and action analysis at block 1409 could be implemented by submitting data describing the events of block 1402 to a public LLM API, such as Open Al Operator or Claude Computer Use by Anthropic, with an engineered prompt that requests the LLM to identify an action to which the events correspond. Any of the foregoing implementations can be supplemented with manual labeling of events to associate the events with clusters or actions.
For example, a prompt to an LLM could specify' three different events that are known to correspond to a particular event and then ask the LLM to assess thousands of other event records to identify any other events that are similar to the three events. Based on the output from that prompt, another prompt could request identifying sequences of events in the data that correlate to the same action(s) with which the first three events are associated. Or, the other events that the LLM indicates to be similar to the three events could be added to the training data in association with the same actions. In this manner, prompts to an LLM can be effectively used to synthesize new training data. An example prompt is: '‘I am going to share with you unstructured JSON data of a series of events that describe an optimal way to accomplish an action in the browser. I would like you to analyze these events and explain to me what they are trying to accomplish. Please group them any way you like and explain to me the limits of what you can determine.’’
An example partial response of an LLM to the foregoing prompt is:
“Based on the detailed sequence of browser events you’ve provided, it appears that the user is engaging in a multi-step process that involves using various applications and services to manage customer service tasks and perhaps communication of translation tasks as well. Here’s a high-level analysis of the actions and possible sequences these events suggest: 1. Navigation and Interaction in Customer Service Platform (Zendesk) ... a. Events: multiple tab activations and navigations in Zendesk, focusing on specific customer support tickets ... b. Purpose: Managing customer service tickets, possibly viewing or responding to customer inquiries. The frequent activation of specific ticket tabs suggests repeated referencing or updating of information related to a particular customer issue ... 2. Use of Google Translate ... Possible Sequence: 1. Review Ticket in Zendesk: The user starts by retrieving details of a ticket in Zendesk; 2. Translation of Communications: Text from the ticket or a proposed response is translated using Google Translate. ... ”
At block 1414. the workflow automation application 122 is programmed to associate one or more events and actions with networked resources and store the events, actions, and resource identifiers as training data records and as a vocabulary' for use in other processing based on natural language. For example, after analysis at block 1409, the workflow automation application 122 is programmed to build a list of common websites and the specific user actions that are associated with these sites. Therefore, each website or URL can be associated with a plurality of specific user actions. In effect, this step defines a structured vocabulary' that can be used to train a machine learning model or an API that can be used deterministically. The foregoing process can be used for any number of websites. For any given website, selecting a named user action can retrieve the specific events that can be replayed to execute the user action for that website.
At block 1418, the workflow automation application 122 is programmed to use the vocabulary as structured data to train and deploy one or more machine learning models. Various embodiments can use different forms of ML model; in one embodiment, a Transformer-based neural network is used, but in other embodiments, a linear classifier or action-based model could be used. After deployment, the trained ML models can be accessed and used via a browser or browser extension.
FIG. 14B represents a programmed process of using the trained ML model(s) in response to a user action to interact with one or more websites. Thus, FIG. 14B ty pically executes after an ML model is trained and deployed as previously described. In an embodiment, at block 1424, the workflow automation application 122 is programmed to receive a sequence of one or more user events at block 1420. For example, events A, B, C, and D could be received sequentially as a user interacts with one or more websites and selects tabs, selects widgets, enters data, copies, pastes, or executes other actions. At block 1426, the workflow automation application 122 is programmed to execute the inference stage of one or more machine learning models over the sequence of one or more user events. For example, one or more events among the events A, B, C, and D are programmatically transmitted to the ML model that was trained as described for FIG. 13 A, as part of a request to execute the inference stage of the model. Such a request will cause the ML model to receive the events as input and output a suggestion of a stored or known workflow that most accurately matches the sequences of one or more user events, as block 1428 indicates. As the phrase "‘most accurately matches" suggests, the programmed logic of block 1428 can include receiving a plurality of ranked suggestions or predictions, each suggestion identifying a workflow using a workflow identifier and having an associated confidence value, then selecting the suggestion having the highest confidence value. The selected suggestion can be output in the extension panel 820 or another user interface element that is superimposed, via the browser extension, over the web page that browser 114 is currently presenting. The particular manner of presenting the selected suggestion to the user is not critical.
The process of FIG. 14B, starting at block 1426, can execute repeatedly as each sequential event is received without waiting for all events of a sequence to occur. For example, FIG. 14B can execute immediately after event A is received via the browser extension or extension panel; if the results of other blocks of the process are inconclusive or the confidence level of a suggestion is too low, then the process of FIG. 14B, starting at block 1426, can execute after both events A and B, or all of events A, B, and C, and so forth, until the output generates a suggestion with a confidence level that is sufficiently high.
At block 1430, the workflow automation application 122 is programmed to receive input corresponding to a user action in response to or after the suggestion. Block 1430 represents detecting any user action after a suggestion is presented, whether or not the user action could be interpreted as a response to the suggestion. For example, the user action could comprise clicking on the suggestion in a workflow panel or extension panel or any other user action such as selecting a browser tab, selecting a browser widget, pasting data, copying data, etc.
At block 1432, the workflow automation application 122 is programmed to test whether the user input indicates selecting the suggested workflow. If so, then model reinforcement training data is generated based on the input and added to the training dataset that was used in FIG. 14A. In this case, the workfl ow automation application 122 has correctly predicted the user task or intent associated with one or more events that were received at block 1420. The user’s selection of the suggested workflow indicates that the suggested workflow was correct, so the machine-learning model should be reinforced with added training data.
At block 1434. if the user input corresponds to one or more other user events-that is, the suggested workflow was not selected-then the workflow automation application 122 is programmed to capture and store an updated sequence of user events as new training data. In this case, the user's action to ignore the suggestion and take other actions indicates that the user's task or intent does not closely match the suggestion and the initial events of block 1420, with the events executed after the suggestion should be considered as new training data for the model. Any new training data created in this manner can also sen e as reference data for the clustering operation of block 1404 (FIG. 14A).
In this manner, in an embodiment, the system is programmed to send its current activity as a raw stream of events to the deployed model. The deployed model uses its training to suggest the actions the user should take to accomplish their goal. Based on the accuracy of the suggestion, the system can determine if the user was successful, as indicated by using the suggestion one or more times. This information then reinforces the model. In addition, new events are reintroduced back into the training cycle used for clustering, as previously described. Furthermore, the machine-learning model(s) can improve with new training data whether the user elects to execute some of a suggested workflow, all of a suggested workflow, or elects to undertake other actions manually.
FIG. 14C illustrates an example in which a large language model (LLM) supports certain aspects of workflow automation. In an embodiment, at block 1440, the workflow automation application 122 is programmed to receive user input specifying a natural language instruction for an action. For example, using a chat interface, or a text entry box widget of the extension panel 120, the workflow automation application 122 could receive an input like “Please process ticket 123 in my ticketing system and show your work.” The text of this form expresses a request or goal at a high level without indicating the nature or description of the ticket. However, an LLM is able to analyze the high-level request and then use the specific vocabulary created in FIG. 14A to accomplish the user’s goal.
In an embodiment, at block 1442, the workflow automation application 122 is programmed to form a prompt to an LLM. In an embodiment, the prompt comprises (a) instructions to generate an output sequence of workflow steps, (b) the vocabulary as context and (c) the user input as portions of the prompt. The instructions are typically static and can comprise text like: “Below I am giving you a vocabulary consisting of actions in web-based applications and the user tasks to which the actions correspond. I am also giving you a text string that specifies a proposed user task. Based on this information, give me a precise description in five words or less of what task the text spring specifies in a form similar to the terms used in the vocabulary. Also, give me an ordered list of web-based applications and actions in those applications that will complete the proposed user task. Be specific in terms of identifying functions or widgets in the applications and what actions to take using a browser.” The vocabulary provided as context at (b) can be the specific vocabulary created in FIG. 14A. The user input of (c) can be the same string that the user entered as their task, goal, or instruction.
At block 1444, the workflow automation application 122 is programmed to programmatically call an API of the LLM using the prompt. For example, the workflow automation application 122 is programmed to generate a parameterized HTTP request directed to an endpoint of an LLM like GPT4, GPT3.5, GEMINI, CLAUDE, etc., in which one parameter is a request type, and another parameter is the prompt of block 1442. Block 1444 also can comprise entering a wait state, receiving a response from the API call, and at least transiently storing the response in memory.
At block 1446, the workflow automation application 122 is programmed to output a suggestion of a stored or known workflow that most accurately matches the natural language instruction and comprises the sequence of workflow steps and/or a new sequence of workflow steps. Block 1446 can comprise applying post-processing to the response that was received from the LLM via block 1444 and then creating and storing a new, named workflow corresponding to the user task and identifying the workflow steps that block 1446 identified. Or, block 1446 can comprise identifying an existing, known workflow by name, represented in the output from the LLM that was received via block 1444. and suggesting this workflow to the user in the extension panel or another UI window, panel, or widget. At this point, the process of FIG. 14C can continue as described in FIG. 14B, starting at block 1430.
As noted earlier, in an embodiment, the event data is stored in training datasets with attribute values specifying the tenant, entity, or instance active in the web-based application at the time that an event occurred and used for training machine learning models. These attributes enable training ML models that are customized to particular tenants or instances while still leveraging community-wide data. Thus, when workflow automation computer 120 detects a partial or complete sequence of user events, the system can determine a suggestion of a workflow corresponding to those events based on community data for similar events, even if the current user's instance is different than all other instances for which the other similar events were collected. Therefore, even if the system has not learned a user action corresponding to a sequence of events for the current particular instance of the user, the system can suggest an action or workflow corresponding to the user’s events based on knowledge derived from other event sequences of other instances.
4. AUTOMATICALLY DETERMINING WORKSTREAMS FROM COMMON ACTIONS IN ONLINE APPLICATIONS
In an embodiment, workflow automation application 122 (FIG. 1) is programmed to interoperate with the browser extension 116 to continuously create user experience data as a basis for generating automated actions. As further described, using a continuous feedback look, embodiments can generate automations to offload human actions to compute instances. Further, if stored automation operates correctly to substitute for human agent action, the same automation can be integrated with a chatbot to enable chat-based invocation of complex workflows and workstreams.
FIG. 15A illustrates a computer-implemented method of automatically determining workstreams from common actions in online applications in one embodiment. At block 1502, workflow automation application 122 is programmed to execute common action discovery. At block 1504, the workflow automation application 122 is programmed to automate the collection of training data for use in machine learning model training. At block 1506, workflow automation application 122 is programmed to perform the user’s highest action ranking. At block 1508, workflow automation application 122 is programmed to manage agent-assisted workstreams. Each block of FIG. 15A is now described in further detail with reference to other views of the drawings.
FIG. 15B illustrates a computer-implemented method of executing common action discovery. FIG. 15B can correspond to block 1502 of FIG. 15A. In one embodiment, common action discovery comprises receiving a plurality of discrete user events of an event stream 1501A. storing data representing the events in database 128. preprocessing the event data to form structured event data 1501B, and organizing the structured event data in a plurality of separate data structures or storage locations, which can be termed buckets. FIG. 21 further illustrates how each bucket may organize data according to different classifications of structured event data. FIG. 21 is further described in other sections herein. Generally, in an embodiment, a workflow automation application can be programmed to collect event data at block 2101. classify event data at block 2102, sub-classify the event data at block 2103, call an LLM at block 2104 to generate a vocabulary based on the event data with classification data, call the same or a different LLM at block 2105 to orchestrate workflows responsive to a ticket and execute the workflow at block 2106 on a web service or web page. Sub-classifying event data at block 2103 can execute in relation to a relational database table that organizes data using identifiers of web services, identifiers of pages associated with page visits that the user conducted, and identifiers of specific actions on the pages that the user performed. For example, in one embodiment, a relational database table schema can store structured event data organized by web service 2109, page groupings 2110 within each web service, each page specific action 2111 that occurred within each page visit.
As previously described in other sections, events can comprise mouse clicks, navigation events, copy operations, selecting UI widgets, and key presses. Preprocessing events can comprise mapping event data from raw browser events, received via a publish-subscribe interface or event hook, to structured event data 1501B in which each structured event data item comprises a set of attributes with field values like parsed_url, selectors, height, etc. As part of the mapping, wildcard values can be substituted for specific values that appear in events. For example, a ticket number, tokenized URL, or UUID can be transformed into a constant or variable identifier using a wildcard form, like $ticket_number. This approach works because the specific value of the original event is unimportant and only the fact that the event referenced a ticket number is important. This approach also greatly reduces the cardinality of the model.
In each bucket, the first event is a navigation event or nav_event, representing the browser 114 visiting a page of a networked resource such as the merchant website 108. Subsequent events within the bucket capture all machine actions that agent computer 110 executes until navigating to a different page, such as through a browser redirect operation. Events are arranged chronologically in a bucket, with later-occurring events appearing further down. In an embodiment, UUIDs in a URL or event body are substituted with common variables, enabling a machine learning model trained on the data to reason about a collection of web pages. In another embodiment, event data can be stored in a graph database as an event graph 1503. FIG. 16A illustrates an example of graph database storage of a plurality of events in an event graph. A navigation or nav_event denoted “nav” in FIG. 16A comprises the root node of the event graph 1503, and all nodes represented as ovals are connected via acyclic edges having count values. Nodes depicted in lower positions represent events that the user of agent computer 110 performed later in time compared to events in upper positions. A count value of an edge is incremented as the same transition corresponding to the edge is observed repeatedly across multiple buckets. In the example of FIG. 16A, hypothetical count values indicate that a user account used the agent computer 110 to follow the nav_event with a mouse click “13” times and a copy action “130” times. Specific values obviously will vary across users, sessions, web pages, and actions.
The workflow automation application 122 can be programmed to query' a subgraph of nodes with connections greater than N. FIG. 16B illustrates an example of a graph that the workflow automation application 122 is programmed to output in response to a query like "Show me a tree with connections > 5.” In an embodiment, workflow automation application 122 is programmed to execute one or more similar queries of the event graph 1503 to yield a set of user action candidates 1507. Each user action candidate comprises a sequence of events corresponding to a broader user action.
Referring again to FIG. 15B, in an embodiment, common action discovery uses a trained machine learning model 1505 to determine the user action candidates 1507. Each user action candidate 1507 represents a discrete high-level user action, which can be termed an HLA for high-level action. For example, the workflow automation application 122 is programmed to query the trained ML model 1505 for the top K probabilities, starting from a particular root nav_event. Both techniques yield a ranked list of candidate sequences from highest to lowest probability. In an embodiment, the trained ML model 1505 comprises a Gated Restricted Unit (GRU) model with a GRU layer with two hidden layers, a dropout layer for answer flexibility, an output layer as only the last prediction for the sequence is used, and a softmax layer for normalization of all possible alternatives. In one embodiment, the GRU model can be defined in code as:
def forwar (self , src) :
# Ensure the source tensor is on the correct device src = src . to (next (self . parameters ( ) ) . device ) # GRU Layer
gru_output, > = self . gru (src) # Shape : (batch_size, seg_length, hidden_size)
# Apply dropout
gru_output = self . dropout (gru_output)
# Only use the output from the last time step for prediction
output = self . fc_output (gru_output [ : , -1 , : ] ) # Shape : (batch_size, output_dim)
output = self . softmax (output)
return output
Other embodiments can use a dynamic connection layer to cut infeasible output in the model, a Markov model with a hidden state, or a Transformer model without or with a minimal encoder/decoder.
In an embodiment, additional validation steps are performed on these candidates, including checking if candidates have been seen before and determining whether the browser extension 116 could reproduce them. For example, at block 1509, the workflow automation application 122 is programmed to determine whether a particular user action candidate is like a previously seen candidate. At block 1510, the workflow automation application 122 is programmed to verify that the browser extension 116 can replay the sequence of events. Replaying can include verifying replayed steps to ensure an action is useful and high-quality.
If a candidate appears valid, at block 1512, the workflow automation application 122 is programmed to call a large language model (LLM) to generate a summary as a response from the LLM. The public API endpoints of commercial LLMs like OpenAI, Bard, and Claude by Anthropic can be called at block 1512. FIG. 17A and FIG. 17B illustrate examples of prompts to an LLM followed by example responses. FIG. 17A shows a first example of a prompt 1702 and a first example of a response 1704. FIG. 17B shows a second example of a prompt 1706 and a second example of a response 1708. In general, a summary can be like: Title: “SF: Copy Username’’; Description: “User is navigating to Salesforce and copying the username/” At block 1513, the workflow automation application 122 is programmed to create and store a vocabulary entry in a vocabulary' store of the workflow automation system, which can use tables in database 128. The summary forms a part of a new' vocabulary entry. Each vocabulary entry comprises a set of actions that can be performed on a target web service, webpage, or other networked resource. Each vocabulary entry can be a machine-readable JSON file that organizes the validated actions by URL host, specific URL, and the frequency with which they have been observed. Alternatively, vocabulary' entries can be stored in a vector database in vector data form. Examples of data associated with vocabulary entries or items include:
SALESFORCE VOCABULARY ENTRIES N Title : "SF: Copy Username"
Description : "User navigates to Salesforce and copies the user name"
1 . Nav
2 . Copy
Title : "SF: Open Lead"
Description : "User navigates to Salesforce and opens a new lead"
1 . Nav
2 . Copy
3. Paste
OKTA VOCABULARY ENTRIES
Title : "Okta : Reset MFA"
Description : "User is navigating to okta and resetting a user' s MFA"
1 . Nav
2 . Click
3. Click
Title : "Okta : Lookup user Description : "User is navigating to okta and looking up a user"
1 . Nav
2 . Click
3. Paste
Common action discover}’ can also leverage LLM support. FIG. 20 illustrates an embodiment in which common action discovery' uses an API call to an LLM to determine the vocabulary based on the structured event data, validate the vocabulary, and summarize the vocabulary. In an embodiment, the workflow automation application 112 is programmed to programmatically call the LLM at block 2001 and supply structured event data 1501B as context data and a prompt instructing the LLM to select a vocabulary term representing a set of actions that can be performed on a target web service. [[Inventors: please provide an example prompt]]. At block 2001, the public API endpoints of commercial LLMs like Open Al Operator and Claude Computer Use by Anthropic can be called programmatically. Block 2001 also can comprise validating the vocabulary based on a determination that the actions are like previously detected actions within the structured event data 1501B and summarizing the vocabulary.
The process of FIG. 20 enables the system to effectively identify, per target web sendee or system, per page type (like a home page or record inspection page), all the actions that endusers have executed on them. For example, a particular target web service could have N agents that generated 1,000 events on a particular profile page; the system can group the events by number of times that each event has been executed, then prompt the LLM at block 2001 to name what action the events represent. Events can be stored in the database using page groupings and relationships between pages. For each page, instances of visits can be stored, with an instance associated with a plurality' of events. Concurrently, in the database schema, a generic view of a page can aggregate all visits, events, and actions associated with the page. With data structured in this manner, prompts to the LLM at block 2001 can name or augment the events to facilitate re-executing the correct events when an action is selected later.
At block 2002, the workflow automation application 112 is programmed to create and store the vocabulary' entry' in a vocabulary store of the workflow automation system, which can use tables in database 128. Each vocabulary entry comprises a set of actions that can be performed on a target web service, webpage, or other networked resource. FIG. 1 C illustrates a computer-implemented method of automating the collection of training data for machine learning. FIG. 15C can correspond to block 1504 of FIG. 15A. In one embodiment, at block 1520, once an action is entered in the vocabulary, workflow automation application 122 is programmed to return to the source data in the buckets to reinspect the event data. Block 1520 can execute immediately in response to storing a new vocabulary entry or offline as a scheduled job to assess a plurality of prior vocabulary entries. For the new action, workflow automation application 122 is programmed to count the number of buckets the action appears in relative to the total number of buckets. This count helps determine how commonly users are performing the corresponding action.
Additionally, at block 1520, workflow automation application 122 is programmed to store the identified action and other data as a training sequence in a training data set. Storing a training sequence can combine the original source events from each bucket into a machine-readable file, associating them with the discovered action, represented as a simplified event sequence. This process automates much of the collection for a supervised training dataset, which is often a costly step in specialized model creation.
In an embodiment, at block 1522, the workflow automation application 122 is programmed to initiate ML model training using the training sequences and, optionally, previous sequences from a current ticket shown in a web sendee as context data. Block 1522 can use the supervised training dataset to train a custom machine-learning model that can analyze a raw stream of user events and return a higher-order action that the user is taking. In one embodiment, the machine learning model trained from the supervised dataset can observe user interactions with browser 114 and agent computer 110, such as clicks, copies, and pastes, and classify them as actions like “Search for the user in Okta” or “Reset Password.” Suitable ML models for training at this stage include Enhanced PrefixSpan with Dynamic Gaps and Time Distance. The simple algorithm defines the match between the ideal sequence and the actual (contaminated) sequence. Alternatives include logistic regression, SVM (support vector machine) with non-linear kernel, and RNN (recurrent neural networks) ranging from a CNN (convolutional neural network) to Transformer-type models.
FIG. 15D illustrates a computer-implemented process of the user’s highest action ranking. FIG. 15D can correspond to block 1506 of FIG. 15A.
At block 1524. the workflow automation application 122 is programmed to inspect the vocabulary of actions associated with a particular user account and to identify common groupings of actions at block 1526. Each user account can have a record in database 128 with column values specifying common groupings of actions and, as described later, Workstreams or workflows. The terms Workstream, workflow, and action sequence are considered equivalent, and other embodiments can use other functionally equivalent terms. "Common." in this context, can mean frequently performed, as determined by comparing counts of sequences of actions to a threshold value. For example, a user might need to perform a group of actions ten times repeatedly to be considered common, or the magnitude of the counts on the edges of the graph can be tested against a threshold value such as 10 or 100. In one embodiment, a graph like that of FIG. 16A is traversed to find user action candidates. For example, with the example graph of FIG. 16A, traversal might result in a first user action candidate comprising nav, click, and copy events and a second user action candidate comprising nav and copy events.
In another embodiment, workflow automation application 122 is programmed, based on a classifier model, to continuously send a stream of raw user events to classify them into higher-level actions and gather statistics on how often the user performs them with agent computer 110 and browser 114. In either approach, the workflow automation application 122 is programmed to identify that a user frequently performs a specific action.
In response, at block 1528, the workflow automation application 122 is programmed to store each common grouping of actions as a Workstream or workflow associated with the user action. In an embodiment, workflow automation application 122 is programmed to suggest a Workstream that groups common actions, receives user input to confirm the Workstream, and stores the Workstream after confirmation. The Workstream can be saved in database 128 with data identifying the user or a user account, in columns of a user account row in the database, or with a reference to a user record or user account in the database. The particular table schema, reference mechanism, and storage mechanism are not critical if a Workstream can be bound to or associated with a particular user account. Or, Workstreams can be associated with user groups or teams associated with the same enterprise.
Further, workflow automation application 122 is programmed the next time the user account visits a website where they typically perform the actions represented in the Workstream to present a suggestion via the browser extension 116 to automate the steps by executing the Workstream. As shown in block 1530, in one embodiment, the workflow automation application is programmed, in response to detecting the same user accessing the same web service, to generate and cause displaying a visual list of one or more Workstreams that correspond to the web service and at least one action that the user account has currently performed. The browser extension 116 can perform the detection and signal the workflow automation application 122 to generate and provide the display. FIG. 13A and FIG. 13B provide examples of graphical user interfaces with displays that could be generated. In this manner, as noted in block 1532, the process of FIG. 15D effectively forms a pattern recognition algorithm to find the same actions in a current event stream.
FIG. 18A and FIG. 18B illustrate a computer-implemented process of agent-assisted workflows. FIG. 18A and FIG. 18B can correspond to block 1508 of FIG. 15A.
Referring first to FIG. 18A. in an embodiment, at block 1540, the process is programmed to detect navigation to a web sendee via the browser extension. For example, the browser extension 116 is programmed to determine that the browser 114 accessed the support ticket system 130.
In response, at block 1542, the process is programmed to extract relevant web service data. For example, with the support ticket system 130, workflow automation application 122 is programmed to extract an incident or ticket number, description, and ticket body. The extracted ticket info 1802 of FIG. 18A shows an example.
In an embodiment, at block 1544, the process is programmed to retrieve prompt text and a list of relevant actions from the vocabulary, integrate the prompt text and relevant actions with the web service data, and thereby generate an engineered LLM prompt. For example, prompt 1804 of FIG. 18A shows that an engineered prompt can comprise instructions on handling a ticket, combining the instructions with the relevant ticket information.
As shown in block 1546, the process is programmed to call an LLM with the engineered prompt. The prompt can be enhanced with a corresponding vocabulary item as a machine-readable document or through a vector database. Before submitting the prompt, workflow automation application 122 is programmed to retrieve relevant actions from the vector database and supply them to the LLM along with the prompt and ticket information. In some embodiments, the models trained via the training steps previously described can be used alone or combined with decision trees to perform event classification. To predict the next user step an embodiment can use Enhanced PrefixSpan with Dynamic Gaps to find the relevant candidate sequence and then check which steps had been performed to define recommendations. Referring now to FIG. 18B, the LLM generates the appropriate sequence of actions and the specific events the user needs to execute, which workflow automation application 122 is programmed to receive as a response from the LLM at block 1548. LLM output 1806 shows an example response.
At block 1550, the process is programmed to cause the web service to execute each action in the list of actions via the browser extension 116, including navigating to services or web pages, inserting field values, and selecting UI widgets as appropriate, to result in completing a task in the web service. Thus, the user acts as an intermediary to execute the specified actions step-by-step, adjusting them as needed; the LLM thereby supports providing an agent experience to remediate and close a ticket.
FIG. 19A, FIG. 19B, FIG. 19C, and FIG. 19D illustrate computer display devices showing example graphical user interfaces during the execution of agent-assisted actions based on the techniques that have been described for FIG. 18A and FIG. 18B. Referring first to FIG.
19A, as one example, using the browser 114 to access the OKTA service can result in receiving and rendering a webpage at agent computer 110 comprising a dashboard panel 1902 and a main window 1904. In an embodiment, the browser extension 116 is programmed to display a workflow play control 1906 floating or superimposed over the main window 1904 and comprising a plurality of play controls such as a play/pause button and a fast action (2X) button, each programmed as active links or widgets to signal input to the browser extension. Thus, in FIG. 19A, a user-assisted agent is suggesting steps to perform tasks desired in a ticket. The user can pause, speed up, or stop the workflow at any time, and adjust operations or entries if the workflow operates incorrectly or contrary to user expectations.
The browser extension 116 is further programmed to interoperate with the workflow automation application 122 to generate and display a workflow panel 1908. In the example of FIG. 19A, the workflow panel 1908 shows one workflow titled ‘‘Lookup User” that consists of three steps: Nav Okta, Click, and Paste. The “Nav Okta” step refers to navigating the browser automatically to the Okta server, for example, by automatically calling a browser service, function, or API and providing a URL of a known endpoint of the Okta service. The Click and Paste steps each are parameterized to specify operating on a “Spotlight” pull-down menu on the Okta page. FIG. 19B shows the same view as FIG. 19A in a state after the Click step has been executed and during the Paste step. A spotlight panel 1910 on the Okta page has been accessed automatically and a user identifier has been pasted automatically into a field of the panel.
FIG. 19C shows a similar view as in FIG. 19A. FIG. 19B in which a different workflow titled “Okta Reset MFA” is running as shown in workflow panel 1908. The workflow comprises three or more steps. A first step, “Click admin-user-profile-toolbar” has been executed. The value “admin-user-profile-toolbar” can correspond to a name or label of a DOM tree element of the Okta webpage that has been accessed. A second step. “Click [reset-authenticators-dropdown-option,” is executing and has resulted in automatically selecting a drop-down widget 1911 over the spotlight panel 1910 and showing options 1912, of which the first, “Reset Multifactor,” is highlighted.
FIG. 19D show s a view of an incident record of another service. The workflow panel 1922 is updated to show a “ServiceNow Add Worknote” workflow with three steps comprising navigating to a specified incident record, clicking on a Work Notes tab, and pasting data in the tab. In response, a work notes panel 1924 of the main window' 1920 has been selected and data has been pasted in a notes detail panel 1926.
The foregoing views represent selected examples but embodiments are programmed to accommodate any web-based service and sequence of user actions that a user can conduct using brow'ser 114 and agent computer 110. For example, in one experimental embodiment, the system operated as follows:
1. Reads the relevant fields from the ticket.
2. Uses a prompt with instructions on how to use “High-Level Actions” (HLAs) with relevant info on the user and organization, such as w'hat web services instances they use.
3. Calculate an embedding based on the above prompt and retrieve relevant HLAs via RAG techniques for the ticket request combined with the organization's specific details (Okta Reset MFA, Add APP, Search user).
4. These relevant HLAs are appended to the previous prompt along with the extension’s Action Space definition; this fully formed prompt is sent to the LLM. Embodiments are LLM-agnostic, and any LLM can be used.
5. LLM returns a response on how to solve the ticket, along with a sequence of actions to accomplish the goal. These actions are an amalgamation of the steps defined in the HLAs 6. Browser extension parses and executes the actions.
FIG. 21 illustrates an overview of the processes within an embodiment of a workflow automation application utilizing an LLM to automatically execute workflows. In an embodiment, at block 2101, the workflow automation application 112 is programmed to collect event data. For example, the workflow automation application 112 can passively observe and collect event data representing user events such as mouse clicks, tab selections, or other online activity in web-based applications or web services. User events can be generated by an agent interacting with a browser 114 on an agent computer 110 or by automations 126 generated by an LLM and executed by browser extension 116 to perform user events on a web service at block 2106. At block 2102, the workflow automation application 112 classifies the collected event data based on the techniques that have been described above for FIG. 7A.
At block 2103, the workflow automation application 112 sub-classifies the event data into buckets organized by the system from which the event data was collected. In an embodiment, the systems may be different web services 2109 or software applications frequently used by agents such as Zendesk, Salesforce, or ServiceNow. Examples of subclassification buckets may include the web service 2109, where the event data was collected, page groupings 2110 within each web service, and each page-specific action 2111 that occurred within each page visit.
At block 2104, the workflow automation application 112 is programmed to programmatically call an API endpoint of an LLM and supply a first prompt instructing the LLM to generate and store in a database 128 vocabulary representing a set of actions that can be performed on a target web service. For example, the workflow automation application 112 may retrieve a copy of the first prompt and event data from the database 128 and provide a first engineered prompt comprising the first prompt and event data to the LLM. The workflow automation application 112 is programmed to receive a response to the first engineered prompt from the LLM comprising vocabulary that is stored in the database 128.
At block 2105, the workflow automation application 112 is programmed to programmatically call an API endpoint of an LLM and supply a second prompt instructing the LLM to select a vocabulary from database 128 that is responsive to resolving a specified task. In an embodiment, the workflow automation application 112 may retrieve both a copy of the second prompt from the database 128 and previously extracted web service data representing an incident or ticket number, description, and body from the ticket support system 130 and provide a second engineered prompt comprising the second prompt and extracted web sendee data to the LLM. The second engineered prompt can be generated by the techniques described above for FIG. 18A and FIG. 18B. In an embodiment, the workflow automation application 112 is programmed to receive a response to the second engineered prompt from the LLM comprising a workflow based on a selected vocabulary representing a list of actions to be executed on the web service. The public API endpoints of commercial LLMs like Open Al Operator and Claude Computer Use by Anthropic can be called at blocks 2104 and 2105.
At block 2106, the workflow automation application 112 is programmed to execute the vocabulary selected by the LLM on the web service. For example, the workflow automation application 112 may supply the vocabulary to a browser extension 116 configured to perform the listed actions within the vocabulary on the web sendee. In an embodiment, the browser extension 116 may generate a graphical user interface on an agent computer 110 during the execution of the vocabulary that represents a workflow panel 1908 configured to control the execution of the workflow. For example, an agent may observe the simultaneous automatic execution of a plurality of workflows on the agent computer 110 and interrupt, stop, or resume a specific workflow by using the workflow panel 1908 to signal input to the browser extension 116.
In an embodiment, the workflow automation application 112 is programmed to return to block 2101 and collect event data generated by the execution of the workflow.
5. IMPLEMENTATION EXAMPLE HARDWARE OVERVIEW According to one embodiment, the techniques described herein are implemented by at least one computing device. The techniques may be implemented in whole or in part using a combination of at least one server computer and/or other computing devices that are coupled using a network, such as a packet data network. The computing devices may be hard-wired to perform the techniques or may include digital electronic devices such as at least one application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC) or field programmable gate array (FPGA) that is persistently programmed to perform the techniques or may include at least one general purpose hardware processor programmed to perform the techniques pursuant to program instructions in firmware, memory, other storage, or a combination. To accomplish the described techniques, such computing devices may also combine custom hard-wired logic, ASICs, or FPGAs with custom programming. The computing devices may be server computers, workstations, personal computers, portable computer systems, handheld devices, mobile computing devices, wearable devices, body-mounted or implantable devices, smartphones, smart appliances, internetworking devices, autonomous or semi-autonomous devices such as robots or unmanned ground or aerial vehicles, any other electronic device that incorporates hard-wired and/or program logic to implement the described techniques, one or more virtual computing machines or instances in a data center, and/or a network of server computers and/or personal computers.
FIG. 2 is a block diagram that illustrates an example computer system with which an embodiment may be implemented. In the example of FIG. 2, a computer system 200 and instructions for implementing the disclosed technologies in hardware, software, or a combination of hardware and software, are represented schematically, for example, as boxes and circles, at the same level of detail that is commonly used by persons of ordinary skill in the art to which this disclosure pertains for communicating about computer architecture and computer systems implementations.
Computer system 200 includes an input/output (I/O) subsystem 202, which may include a bus and/or other communication mechanism(s) for communicating information and/or instructions between the components of the computer system 200 over electronic signal paths. The I/O subsystem 202 may include an I/O controller, a memory controller, and at least one I/O port. The electronic signal paths are represented schematically in the drawings, for example, as lines, unidirectional arrows, or bidirectional arrows.
At least one hardware processor 204 is coupled to I/O subsystem 202 for processing information and instructions. Hardware processor 204 may include, for example, a general-purpose microprocessor or microcontroller and/or a special-purpose microprocessor such as an embedded system or a graphics processing unit (GPU), or a digital signal processor or ARM processor. Processor 204 may comprise an integrated arithmetic logic unit (ALU) or be coupled to a separate ALU.
Computer system 200 includes one or more units of memoi ' 206, such as a main memory, which is coupled to I/O subsystem 202 for electronically digitally storing data and instructions to be executed by processor 204. Memory 206 may include volatile memory such as various forms of random-access memory (RAM) or other dynamic storage device. Memory 206 may also be used for storing temporary' variables or other intermediate information during the execution of instructions to be executed by processor 204. Such instructions, when stored in non-transitory computer-readable storage media accessible to processor 204, can render computer system 200 into a special-purpose machine that is customized to perform the operations specified in the instructions.
Computer system 200 further includes non-volatile memory such as read-only memory (ROM) 208 or other static storage devices coupled to I/O subsystem 202 for storing information and instructions for processor 204. The ROM 208 may include various forms of programmable ROM (PROM), such as erasable PROM (EPROM) or electrically erasable PROM (EEPROM). A unit of persistent storage 210 may include various forms of non-volatile RAM (NVRAM), such as FLASH memory, solid-state storage, magnetic disk, or optical disks such as CD-ROM or DVD-ROM and may be coupled to I/O subsystem 202 for storing information and instructions. Storage 210 is an example of a non-transitory computer-readable medium that may be used to store instructions and data, which, when executed by the processor 204, cause performing computer-implemented methods to execute the techniques herein.
The instructions in memory 206. ROM 208. or storage 210 may comprise one or more sets of instructions that are organized as modules, methods, objects, functions, routines, or calls. The instructions may be organized as one or more computer programs, operating system sendees, or application programs including mobile apps. The instructions may comprise an operating system and/or system software: one or more libraries to support multimedia, programming, or other functions; data protocol instructions or stacks to implement TCP/IP, HTTP, or other communication protocols; file format processing instructions to parse or render files coded using HTML, XML, JPEG, MPEG or PNG; user interface instructions to render or interpret commands for a graphical user interface (GUI), command-line interface or text user interface: application software such as an office suite, internet access applications, design and manufacturing applications, graphics applications, audio applications, software engineering applications, educational applications, games or miscellaneous applications. The instructions may implement a web server, web application server, or web client. The instructions may be organized as a presentation layer, application layer, and data storage layer, such as a relational database system using structured query language (SQL) or no SQL, an object store, a graph database, a flat file system, or other data storage.
Computer system 200 may be coupled via I/O subsystem 202 to at least one output device 212. In one embodiment, output device 212 is a digital computer display. Examples of a display that may be used in various embodiments include a touchscreen display, a hght-emitting diode (LED) display, a liquid crystal display (LCD), or an e-paper display. Computer system 200 may include other types(s) of output devices 212, alternatively or in addition to a display device. Examples of other output devices 212 include printers, ticket printers, plotters, projectors, sound cards or video cards, speakers, buzzers or piezoelectric devices or other audible devices, lamps or LED or LCD indicators, haptic devices, actuators or servos.
At least one input device 214 is coupled to I/O subsystem 202 for communicating signals, data, command selections, or gestures to processor 204. Examples of input devices 214 include touch screens, microphones, still and video digital cameras, alphanumeric and other keys, keypads, keyboards, graphics tablets, image scanners, joysticks, clocks, switches, buttons, dials, slides, and/or various types of sensors such as force sensors, motion sensors, heat sensors, accelerometers, gyroscopes, and inertial measurement unit (IMU) sensors and/or various t pes of transceivers such as wireless, such as cellular or Wi-Fi, radio frequency (RF) or infrared (IR) transceivers and Global Positioning System (GPS) transceivers.
Another type of input device is a control device 216. which may perform cursor control or other automated control functions such as navigation in a graphical interface on a display screen, alternatively or in addition to input functions. The control device 216 may be a touchpad, a mouse, a trackball, or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to processor 204 and controlling cursor movement on an output device 212 such as a display. The input device may have at least two degrees of freedom in two axes, a first axis (e.g., x) and a second axis (e.g., y), that allows the device to specify positions in a plane. Another type of input device is a wired, wireless, or optical control device such as a joy stick, wand, console, steering wheel, pedal, gearshift mechanism, or other type of control device. An input device 214 may include a combination of multiple different input devices, such as a video camera and a depth sensor.
In another embodiment, computer system 200 may comprise an Internet of Things (loT) device in which one or more of the output device 212, input device 214, and control device 216 are omitted. Or, in such an embodiment, the input device 214 may comprise one or more cameras, motion detectors, thermometers, microphones, seismic detectors, other sensors or detectors, measurement devices or encoders, and the output device 212 may comprise a specialpurpose display such as a single-line LED or LCD display, one or more indicators, a display panel, a meter, a valve, a solenoid, an actuator or a servo.
When computer system 200 is a mobile computing device, input device 214 may comprise a global positioning system (GPS) receiver coupled to a GPS module that is capable of triangulating to a plurality of GPS satellites, determining and generating geo-location or position data such as latitude-longitude values for a geophysical location of the computer system 200. Output device 212 may include hardware, software, firmware, and interfaces for generating position reporting packets, notifications, pulse or heartbeat signals, or other recurring data transmissions that specify a position of the computer system 200, alone or in combination with other application-specific data, directed toward host computer 224 or server computer 230.
Computer system 200 may implement the techniques described herein using customized hard-wired logic, at least one ASIC or FPGA, firmware, and/or program instructions or logic which, when loaded and used or executed in combination with the computer system, causes or programs the computer system to operate as a special-purpose machine. According to one embodiment, the techniques herein are performed by computer system 200 in response to processor 204 executing at least one sequence of at least one instruction contained in main memory 206. Such instructions may be read into main memory 206 from another storage medium, such as storage 210. Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in main memory 206 causes processor 204 to perform the process steps described herein. In alternative embodiments, hard-wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions.
The term “storage media,” as used herein, refers to any non-transitory media that store data and/or instructions that cause a machine to operate in a specific fashion. Such storage media may comprise non-volatile media and/or volatile media. Non-volatile media includes, for example, optical or magnetic disks, such as storage 210. Volatile media includes dynamic memory, such as memory 206. Common forms of storage media include, for example, a hard disk, solid state drive, flash drive, magnetic data storage medium, any optical or physical data storage medium, memory' chip, or the like.
Storage media is distinct from but may be used in conjunction with transmission media. Transmission media participates in transferring information between storage media. For example, transmission media includes coaxial cables, copper wire, and fiber optics, including the wires that comprise a bus of I/O subsystem 202. Transmission media can also be acoustic or light waves, such as those generated during radio-wave and infrared data communications.
Various forms of media may carry’ at least one sequence of at least one instruction to processor 204 for execution. For example, the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk or solid-state drive of a remote computer. The remote computer can load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions over a communication link such as a fiber optic or coaxial cable or telephone line using a modem. A modem or router local to computer system 200 can receive the data on the communication link and convert the data to a format that can be read by computer system 200. For instance, a receiver such as a radio frequency antenna or an infrared detector can receive the data carried in a wireless or optical signal, and appropriate circuitry can provide the data to I/O subsystem 202 such as place the data on a bus. I/O subsystem 202 carries the data to memory 206, from which processor 204 retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by memory 206 may optionally be stored on storage 210 either before or after execution by processor 204.
Computer system 200 also includes a communication interface 218 coupled to a bus of I/O subsystem 202. Communication interface 218 provides a two-way data communication coupling to a network link(s) 220 that are directly or indirectly connected to at least one communication network, such as network 222 or a public or private cloud on the Internet. For example, communication interface 218 may be an Ethernet networking interface, integrated-services digital network (ISDN) card, cable modem, satellite modem, or a modem to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of communications line, for example, an Ethernet cable or a metal cable of any kind or a fiber-optic line or a telephone line. Network 222 broadly represents a local area network (LAN), wide-area network (WAN), campus network, internetwork, or any combination thereof. Communication interface 218 may comprise a LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN, a cellular radiotelephone interface that is wired to send or receive cellular data according to cellular radiotelephone wireless networking standards, or a satellite radio interface that is wired to send or receive digital data according to satellite wireless networking standards. In any such implementation, communication interface 218 sends and receives electrical, electromagnetic, or optical signals over signal paths that carry’ digital data streams representing various types of information.
Network link 220 typically provides electrical, electromagnetic, or optical data communication directly or through at least one network to other data devices, using, for example, satellite, cellular, Wi-Fi. or BLUETOOTH technology. For example, network link 220 may connect through network 222 to a host computer 224. Furthermore, network link 220 may provide a connection through network 222 or to other computing devices via internetworking devices and/or computers that are operated by an Internet Service Provider (ISP) 226. ISP 226 provides data communication services through a worldwide packet data communication network represented as Internet 228. A server computer 230 may be coupled to Internet 228. Server computer 230 broadly represents any computer, data center, virtual machine, or virtual computing instance with or without a hypervisor or computer executing a containerized program system such as DOCKER or KUBERNETES. Server computer 230 may represent an electronic digital service that is implemented using more than one computer or instance, and that is accessed and used by transmitting web services requests, uniform resource locator (URL) strings with parameters in HTTP payloads, API calls, app services calls, or other service calls. Computer system 200 and server computer 230 may form elements of a distributed computing system that includes other computers, a processing cluster, a server farm, or other organization of computers that cooperate to perform tasks or execute applications or services. Server computer 230 may comprise one or more sets of instructions that are organized as modules, methods, objects, functions, routines, or calls. The instructions may be organized as one or more computer programs, operating system sendees, or application programs including mobile apps. The instructions may comprise an operating system and/or system software; one or more libraries to support multimedia, programming, or other functions; data protocol instructions or stacks to implement TCP/IP, HTTP, or other communication protocols; file format processing instructions to parse or render files coded using HTML, XML, JPEG, MPEG or PNG; user interface instructions to render or interpret commands for a graphical user interface (GUI), command-line interface or text user interface; application software such as an office suite, internet access applications, design and manufacturing applications, graphics applications, audio applications, software engineering applications, educational applications, games or miscellaneous applications. Server computer 230 may comprise a web application server that hosts a presentation layer, application layer, and data storage layer, such as a relational database system using a structured query language (SQL) or no SQL, an object store, a graph database, a flat file system or other data storage.
Computer system 200 can send messages and receive data and instructions, including program code, through the network(s). network link 220, and communication interface 218. In the Internet example, server computer 230 might transmit a requested code for an application program through Internet 228, ISP 226, local network 222, and communication interface 218. The received code may be executed by processor 204 as it is received and/or stored in storage 210 or other non-volatile storage for later execution.
The execution of instructions, as described in this section, may implement a process in the form of an instance of a computer program that is being executed, consisting of program code and its current activity. Depending on the operating system (OS), a process may comprise multiple threads of execution that execute instructions concurrently. In this context, a computer program is a passive collection of instructions, while a process may execute those instructions. Several processes may be associated with the same program; for example, opening up several instances of the same program often means more than one process is being executed. Multitasking may be implemented to allow multiple processes to share processor 204. While each processor 204 or core of the processor executes a single task at a time, computer system 200 may be programmed to implement multitasking to allow each processor to switch between tasks that are being executed without having to wait for each task to finish. In an embodiment, switches may be performed when tasks perform input/output operations when a task indicates that it can be switched or on hardware interrupts. Time-sharing may be implemented to allow fast response for interactive user applications by rapidly performing context switches to provide the appearance of concurrent execution of multiple processes simultaneously. In an embodiment, for security and reliability, an operating system may prevent direct communication between independent processes, providing strictly mediated and controlled inter-process communication functionality7.
In the foregoing specification, embodiments of the invention have been described with numerous specific details that may vary from implementation to implementation. The specification and drawings are, accordingly, to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The sole and exclusive indicator of the scope of the invention, and what is intended by the applicants to be the scope of the invention, is the literal and equivalent scope of the set of claims issued from this application in the specific form in which such claims issue, including any subsequent correction.
Claims
Hide Dependent 
What is claimed is:
1. One or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media storing a workflow automation application comprising one or more sequences of instructions which, when executed using one or more processors, the one or more processors being communicatively coupled to one or more network interfaces that are communicatively coupled to one or more internetworks and capable of network communication with a program hosted on an agent computer that also hosts a browser, cause the one or more processors to execute:
receiving browser tab event data indicating a change in a browser tab associated with navigation of the browser to a web service;
extracting web sendee data from a web page served to the browser from the web sen-ice;
retrieving, from digital data storage, a first prompt text for a first prompt to a large language model (LLM) and a first list of actions from a vocabulary of common user actions;
programmatically calling the LLM and providing a first engineered prompt comprising the first prompt text, the first list of actions, and the web service data;
receiving a response to the first engineered prompt from the LLM, the response comprising a second list of actions; and
posting a plurality of requests to the web service, each request among the plurality of requests specifying to execute a different successive action in the second list of actions.
2. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media of claim 1, wherein the vocabulary of common user actions comprises actions selected by a trained machine learning model.
3. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media of claim 2, wherein the actions selected by the trained machine learning model are validated based on a determination that the actions are similar to previously detected actions.
4. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media of claim 3, wherein the actions selected by the trained machine learning model are summarized by the LLM.
5. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media of claim 4, wherein the trained machine learning model is trained with a training data set comprising an additional set of actions summarized by the LLM. 6. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media of claim 1, wherein the vocabulary of common user actions comprises second actions selected by one or more instructions which, when executed using the one or more processors, causes the one or more processors to execute:
retrieving, from digital data storage, a second prompt text and structured event data representing discrete user events of an event stream;
programmatically calling the LLM and providing a second engineered prompt comprising the second prompt text and the structured event data;
receiving a response to the second engineered prompt from the LLM, the response comprising the vocabulary of common user actions and a summary of the vocabulary; and storing the vocabulary and summary in digital data storage.
7. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media of claim 6, wherein the program comprises a browser extension.
8. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media of claim 7, wherein the browser extension is configured to monitor and record an execution of the second actions on the web service and store the second actions in digital data storage.
9. A computer-implemented method, comprising:
detecting, by a program hosted on an agent computer, a navigation to a web service; extracting, by a workflow automation computer communicatively coupled to one or more internetworks and capable of network communication with the program hosted on an agent computer, web service data from the web service;
retrieving, by the workflow automation computer, prompt text for a large language model (LLM) and a first list of actions from a vocabulary of common user actions;
calling, by the workflow automation computer, the LLM with an engineered prompt comprising prompt text, the first list of actions, and the web service data;
receiving by the workflow automation computer, a response to the engineered prompt from the LLM, the response comprising a second list of actions; and
executing, by the program, instructions to the web service to execute each action in the second list of actions.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, wherein the vocabulary of common user actions comprises actions selected by a trained machine learning model. 11. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, wherein the actions selected by the trained machine learning model are validated based on a determination that the actions are similar to previously detected actions.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein the actions selected by the trained machine learning model are summarized by the LLM.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 12, wherein the trained machine learning model is trained with a training data set comprising an additional set of actions summarized by the LLM.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, further comprising: retrieving, from digital data storage, a second prompt text for a second prompt to the LLM and structured event data representing discrete user events of an event stream;
programmatically calling the LLM and providing a second engineered prompt comprising the prompt text and the structured event data;
receiving a response to the engineered prompt from the LLM, the response comprising the vocabulary of common user actions and a summary of the vocabulary'; and
storing the vocabulary' and summary in digital data storage.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, further comprising: inspecting, by the workflow automation computer, the vocabulary of common user actions;
identifying, by the workflow automation computer, frequently performed groups of actions in the vocabulary of common user actions; and
storing, by the workflow automation computer, a selected group of actions from the frequently performed groups of actions as a workstream.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 15, wherein storing a selected group of actions further comprises:
prompting a user to confirm the workstream; and
storing the workstream in response to receiving user confirmation.
17. The computer-implemented method of claim 15, wherein identifying frequently performed groups of actions comprises comparing a number of times an action has been performed to a threshold value.
18. The computer-implemented method of claim 15. further comprising: detecting, by the program, an additional navigation to the web service; and displaying, by the program, a visual list of one or more workstreams corresponding to the web service.
19. The computer-implemented method of claim 18. further comprising: executing a displayed workstream in the visual list of one or more workstreams by executing the selected group of actions grouped in the workstream.
20. One or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media storing one or more trained machine learning models and a workflow automation application comprising one or more sequences of instructions which, when executed using one or more processors, the one or more processors being are communicatively coupled to one or more network interfaces that are communicatively coupled to one or more internetworks and capable of network communication with a program hosted on an agent computer, cause the one or more processors to execute:
extracting web service data from a web service;
predicting, with the one or more trained machine learning models, a first list of actions from a vocabulary of common user actions;
calling a large language model (LLM) with an engineered prompt comprising the first list of actions and the web service data;
receiving a response to the engineered prompt from the LLM, the response comprising a second list of actions; and
transmitting instructions to the w eb service to execute each action in the second list of actions.
21. The one or more non-transitory computer- readable storage media of claim 20, wherein the vocabulary of common user actions comprises actions selected by the one or more trained machine learning models.
22. The one or more non-transitory' computer-readable storage media of claim 21, wherein the actions selected by the one or more trained machine learning models are validated based on a determination that the actions are similar to previously detected actions.
23. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media of claim 22, wherein the actions selected by the one or more trained machine learning models are summarized by the LLM. 24. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media of claim 23, wherein the one or more trained machine learning models are trained with a training data set comprising an additional set of actions summarized by the LLM.
25. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media of claim 20, wherein the vocabulary of common user actions comprises second actions selected by one or more instructions which, when executed using the one or more processors, causes the one or more processors to execute:
retrieving, from digital data storage, a second prompt text and structured event data representing discrete user events of an event stream;
programmatically calling the LLM and providing a second engineered prompt comprising the second prompt text and the structured event data;
receiving a response to the engineered prompt from the LLM, the response comprising the vocabulary of common user actions and a summary of the vocabulary; and
storing the vocabulary and summary in digital data storage.
26. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media of claim 20, further comprising a browser on the agent computer and a support ticket system, wherein detecting navigation to a web service comprises determining that the browser accessed the support ticket system.
27. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media of claim 20, wherein the program comprises a browser extension.
28. The one or more non-transitory' computer-readable storage media of claim 27, wherein the browser extension is configured to monitor and record an execution of the second actions on the web service and store the second actions in digital data storage.
29. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media of claim 20, wherein the second list of actions includes one or more of: navigating to services or web pages, inserting field values, and selecting UI widgets as appropriate, to result in completing a task in the web service.
30. A computer-implemented method, comprising:
extracting, by a workflow automation application in a workflow automation computer communicatively coupled to one or more internetworks and capable of network communication with a program hosted on an agent computer, web service data from a web service; predicting, with one or more trained machine learning models, a first list of actions from a vocabulary of common user actions;
calling a large language model (LLM) with an engineered prompt comprising the first list of actions and the web service data;
receiving a response to the engineered prompt from the LLM, the response comprising a second list of actions; and
transmitting instructions to the web service to execute each action in the second list of actions.

US20240427970A1：

Description
CLAIM OF PRIORITY
[0001]
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. § 119 (e) to U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 63/509,460, filed on Jun. 21, 2023, the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0002]
This specification relates generally to production simulations associated with gas field and oilfield production. For example, this specification describes digital agent interfaces for use in reservoir simulations and reservoir process control systems.
BACKGROUND
[0003]
A data processing system can simulate operations of the reservoir using production simulators. The production simulators are configured to simulate the operation of geophysics within the reservoir in response to various operations in the reservoir, such as performing hydraulic fracturing, performing well drilling, performing seismic measurements, or other operations in the reservoir. In some implementations, hardware within the reservoir can be emulated using a digital twin. A digital twin is a digital representation of an intended or actual real-world physical product, system, or process (a physical twin) that serves as the effectively indistinguishable digital counterpart of it for practical purposes, such as simulation, integration, testing, monitoring, and maintenance.
SUMMARY
[0004]
This disclosure describes digital agents which operate as an interface between a production simulator and an operator of the production simulator. The one or more digital agents may enable a user to operate the production simulator correctly by providing guided instructions for operating the production simulation while a simulation is taking place. For example, the digital agent may suggest which aspects of the simulation should be changed, which simulator assets should be leveraged, how the simulator should be controlled during execution, flag any potential errors or inconsistencies for simulation operation, and otherwise guide execution of the production simulator.
[0005]
A data processing system includes one or more digital agents that are configured to detect when a specific asset for a production simulator is potentially useful and suggest the one or more simulator assets to the user. The one or more digital agents are trained to detect, and offer, which simulation scenarios generally require the use of specific assets of the production simulator in order to successfully simulate them. The one or more digital agents therefore can greatly assist a technician in operation of the production simulator and guide the technician to properly simulate the asset and in a manner that is consistent with other simulations that are being performed. The one or more digital agents are software platforms independent and issue commands accordingly to execute the chosen simulation accordingly.
[0006]
The described implementations can provide numerous technical benefits. Production simulators execute on specialized client devices that include specialized interfaces. The interfaces for production simulators are based on the operations of this production simulator, which include many (e.g., dozens of) inputs, controls, and other interactive objects for controlling the simulation of the production. The interface is complicated and therefore requires substantial training for the production simulations to be executed to obtain a reasonable simulation output.
[0007]
In addition to the specialized interface, there is minimal automation between the interface of the production simulators and the corresponding digital twins or other simulation assets that are available to the production simulator. For example, the production simulator may have submodules, digital twin assets, or other sub-simulations to execute within the larger production simulation. These simulator assets may need to be activated by an operator at specific times or in specific circumstances that are recognized by a trained user. The execution of the production simulation can therefore an experienced technician to manually operate the production simulator such as leveraging one or more of the available assets at specific times or in specific circumstances. In this example an experienced technician may be a technician with understanding of the production or other desired outcomes of the production simulation. The technician has an intimate understanding of the available assets. The technician understands when to access and execute these assets during the production simulation to enable and optimal simulator output. The production simulation may therefore be inconsistent depending on the skill of the given operator of the simulator.
[0008]
To overcome these issues, a digital agent acts as an interface between the production simulator and the operator. The digital agent guides a user for operation of the production simulator during the simulation. The digital agent includes an intuitive interface that enables an untrained user to operate the production simulator without pre-existing knowledge of the interface and which specific controls and digital assets are in the production simulator. Additionally, the digital agent enables a user that does not have pre-existing understanding of process concepts to successfully operate the production simulator. The digital agent can guide operation of the simulation by suggesting various simulator assets to execute at appropriate times and specifying what various outcomes can be achieved by executing these simulator assets.
[0009]
One or more of the above advantages are enabled by the following embodiments.
[0010]
In a general aspect, a method for executing a production simulation includes receiving, through a client device, an instruction for executing a portion of a production simulation; responsive to receiving the instruction, accessing one or more digital agents, the one or more digital agents configured and trained with training data representing actions for operating one or more production simulations, the training data associating one or more simulation assets with respective data signatures each representing a scenario for executing a given simulation asset within the production simulation, wherein at least one of the one or more simulation assets includes the portion of the production simulation; accessing, by the one or more digital agents, the simulation asset including the portion of the production simulation of the instruction; executing the portion of the production simulation to generate output data; and providing the output data to the client device.
[0011]
In some implementations the one or more digital agents are available to the client device as a service.
[0012]
In some implementations, the one or more simulation assets include a digital twin representing a piece of physical hardware in the production.
[0013]
In some implementations, the one or more simulation assets include a sub-simulation asset, the sub-simulation asset configured to generate a specific data output that is specified in the instruction.
[0014]
In some implementations, the instruction is received through an interface comprising a chat bot or a digital input interface.
[0015]
In some implementations, the instruction is received responsive to providing the client device with one or more options for executing their production simulation.
[0016]
In some implementations the process includes providing, to the client device, one or more suggestions for one or more prerequisite portions of the production simulation that is required prior to executing the portion of the production simulation identified in the instruction.
[0017]
In some implementations a system is configured for executing a production simulation. The includes one or more processors; and a memory storing instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform the operations of the previously described processes.
[0018]
In a general aspect, one or more non-transitory computer readable media store instructions for executing a production simulation. The instructions, when executed by one or more processors, are configured for causing the one or more processors to perform the previously described processes.
[0019]
The details of one or more embodiments are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features and advantages will be apparent from the description and drawings, and from the claims.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0020]
FIG. 1A illustrates an interface for one or more digital agents.
[0021]
FIG. 1B illustrates an interface for one or more physical platforms.
[0022]
FIG. 1C illustrates an example system for hydrocarbon well production.
[0023]
FIG. 2 illustrates a flow diagram showing a process for using one or more digital agents to execute a production simulation.
[0024]
FIG. 3 illustrates a flow diagram showing a process for using one or more digital agents to execute a production simulation.
[0025]
FIG. 4 is a diagram of an example computing system.
[0026]
FIG. 5 is a diagram of example hydrocarbon production operations.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0027]
This disclosure describes a data processing system including one or more digital agents that together provide an automated interface between one or more assets of a production simulator and an operator of the production simulator. The one or more digital agents may enable a user to operate the production simulator by providing guided instructions for operating the production simulator while a simulation is taking place. For example, the digital agent may suggest updates to one or more parameter values of the simulator, which simulator assets or models should be leveraged in a given scenario, flag any potential errors or inconsistencies in operation, and otherwise guide a user during performance of the production simulator.
[0028]
In some implementations, the one or more digital agents are configured to automatically launch, execute, and terminate assets model from a library of available asset models. The one or more digital agents are further configured to obtain simulation results by automatically updating operating parameter values without user intervention or with minimal user validation of such a change. The one or more digital agents therefore not only guide users to properly execute the production simulator but can also minimize or eliminate errors or other faults that may be introduced by the operator. The one or more digital agents also as previously stated can leverage the full library of available models depending on the particular scenario of the production simulation. The one or more digital agents can be trained based on prior previously run simulations to detect when each available model or other simulation asset is appropriate to suggest for execution or to execute automatically.
[0029]
The one or more digital agents can provide an interface between the production simulation layer and the computing network of an entire organization that is operating many production simulations. Therefore, a specific production simulation can be available through the interface provided by the one or more digital agents to any user that is able to access the network. For example, the data processing system provides the one or more digital agents as a service to users on the network such that any user may access one or more digital agents for any production simulation. The data processing system makes the one or more digital agents available using remote call functions or any other supported methods as interfaces with simulation models/digital twins.
[0030]
A user, through the interface of the one or more digital agents, can interact using written text or human speech with the agents to make requests and obtain results. These requests will trigger the agent to execute a specific model which is already developed and resides in an internal cloud or local workstation. The digital agent asks the user to wait until the model run is complete and then extract the results and present them to the user in a less technical form. If required, the user may be able to interact further with the agent to further interrogate into the results or asks for further information.
[0031]
As described previously, the one or more digital agents can control or represent digital twins corresponding to physical hardware of a production facility. The physical hardware can include hardware for extracting hydrocarbons from a reservoir, refining hydrocarbons produced from a reservoir, or subsets of hardware for either of these scenarios or both of these scenarios. In these cases, the simulation is tailored to function exactly as the physical hardware it represents. A user can generate one or more control commands for operating the physical hardware that are first simulated using the digital twins of the interface. For example, the inputs and outputs of each simulation can mirror those provided to the physical hardware represented by the one or more digital twins controllable through the user interface.
[0032]
In some implementations, the interface that is used for controlling the one or more digital twins can be used to control physical hardware represented by the one or more digital twins, such as when a simulation is successful. For example, the natural language input enabled by the chat bot or other interface can be used for controlling physical hardware for hydrocarbon production, the chat bot can be enabled for controlling physical hardware when simulations using the natural language inputs are successful or otherwise validated as properly performing the hydrocarbon production operations of the simulation. For example, when a natural language model for a particular digital asset is trained And simulations using that trained model are successful, the trained model can be applied to process natural language inputs for controlling physical hardware.
[0033]
FIG. 1A illustrates a system 100 including an interface 112 for one or more digital agents 106 and a production simulator 104. The digital agents 106 and production simulator 104 together form a simulation platform 102. The one or more digital agents 106 can access one or more simulation models 110. The one or more digital agents 106 can use the simulation models 110 part of the production simulation. For example, the one or more digital agents 106 access the simulation models and suggest which of these assets are to be used as part of the production simulator 104.
[0034]
The one or more digital agents can include logic that specifies which circumstances of the simulation correspond to which simulation models 110. The one or more digital agents 106 are configured to recommend or suggest specific models, digital twins, or other simulation assets that are relevant to a particular production simulation. The one or more digital agents 106 may suggest specific parameter change to be inputted into the production model. For example, if a throughput capacity simulation is being executed, the digital agent 106 may recommend a specific set of flowrates to be inserted into the production simulation. In another example, if a rating simulation on a specific equipment is being performed, the digital agent may recommend specific parameters for adjustments and their values to be set as part of the simulation. In these examples, the digital agents 106 are configured to recommend specific parameters, models, digital twin assets, control adjustments, or other aspects of the simulation in order to guide a user to operate the simulator properly.
[0035]
The one or more digital agents 106 may also constrain the production simulation in order to achieve realistic outcomes or otherwise guide a user in selection of parameter values. For example, if incompatible equipment is linked inside the simulation, the digital agents 106 may highlight this fault to the user and recommend an alternative equipment configuration. Such recommendations enable a user without specialized training or experience to configure and execute a production simulation fully utilizing all of the available simulation models 110 and other simulator assets that are available without having extensive knowledge of these available assets.
[0036]
The one or more digital agents 106 may detect specific circumstances under which one or more simulation models 110 are appropriate for recommending to the user. For example, when data values of the simulation represent a specific data signature, the digital agent 106 may detect that a particular simulation model may need to be executed. The specific thresholds of these data values or parameter values maybe set based on training the digital agents 106 using machine learning approaches. For example, prior simulations that have been executed can be used as training data to train the one or more digital agents 106 in determining when specific assets of the simulation models 110 have been accessed during a production simulation and under what circumstances those simulation models were used. These training data can train the one or more digital agents 106 and therefore leverage prior production simulations that were executed by experienced technicians in order to recommend options for future production simulations executed by untrained users.
[0037]
The data processing system 100 includes an interface 112. The interface 112 can include a user interface that simplifies operation of the simulation platform 102. The interface 112 can include more than just a visual user interface. The interface 112 can include dynamic controls that are generated based on the underlying intelligence of the one or more digital agents 106. For example, the interface 112 can be configured to ingest local commands of a user. In some implementations, the interface 112 is configured to automatically display or suggest various simulation model assets 110 to a user of a client device 108. The interface 112 may include a visualization of the execution of the production simulation. Generally, the purpose of the interface 112 is to greatly simplify the user interface of the production simulator 104 by removing access controls and instead allowing the one or more digital agents to suggest changes or updates to the production simulation as required during execution of the simulation. The interface 112 can therefore include only a few visual controls and can be generally operated based on responding to suggestions, alerts, recommendations, or other dynamically generated controls that only are displayed at a time in which those controls are relevant to changing operation of the production simulation.
[0038]
The user commands can include natural language queries that are interpreted by language models of the simulation. The language models can be tailored to correspond to the specific circumstances under which the simulation is being executed. For example, depending on the physical hardware being simulated by the one or more digital twins of the simulation, particular commands can cause particular control signals to be generated for controlling one or more digital twins that are simulating the physical hardware. A language model can enable a user to execute complex operations without extensive training or specialized knowledge. For example, in particular production operations, user can be prompted to perform a particular test or request a specific sensor reading at a point in time at which the user should be doing so when operating the physical hardware Represented by the one or more digital twins of the simulation.
[0039]
A language model can be associated with each digital asset such as each respective simulation model or each of the one or more digital twins. For example, a language model can operate using a particular vocabulary for a particular simulation or other digital asset. Different natural language commands can be associated with different control inputs for operating the physical hardware represented by digital twin or otherwise operating the simulation. For a different digital twin or simulation, the same vocabulary may correspond to a different input for controlling the physical hardware represented by the digital twin or for the simulation. Each of the language models can be trained for its particular simulation or other digital asset such as a digital twin to enable a user to input natural language queries that will always correspond to valid inputs for controlling the simulation or physical hardware represented by the digital twin. Therefore, a user can operate a complex hydrocarbon production operation for a particular facility without specialized training for operations at that particular facility, that particular set of hardware or simulation, or other specialized knowledge.
[0040]
FIG. 1B illustrates a system 120 for controlling one or more physical platforms 122. The client device 108 can be used to input natural language queries into an interface 112. The interface 112 can be trained with a particular language model based on training data 130 received from simulations as described herein. The training data 130 can be input into the digital twin 126 representing the hardware of the hardware platform 122 and can communicate with hardware controllers 114 that operate the hardware of the hardware platform 122.
[0041]
The system 120 enables a user to interact with the hardware platform 122 using natural language queries using the natural language interface 112. Inputs, or commands provided through the interface 112 are recognized by the digital twin digital asset 126 which provides appropriate control inputs to the hardware controllers 114 for operation of hardware of the hardware platform 122. The digital twin 126 translates the natural language command(s) into inputs for the hardware controller 114 for causing the hardware platform 122 to perform the action of the natural language command. The digital twin 126, or other digital asset, can generate responses to the natural language queries provided though the interface 112. In some implementations, the digital twin 126 can generate prompts for additional commands or instructions for further controlling the hardware platform 122. The prompts or commands can be generated by the interface 112 responsive to receiving data, from the digital twin 126 or other digital asset, that the hardware platform 122 has completed execution of operations represented by one or more previous commands received through the interface 112.
[0042]
FIG. 1C shows a system 150 for hydrocarbon well production. The system 150 includes a plurality of wells 152 a-d (collectively wells 152), a control center 160, and a network 162. The plurality of wells 152 are at various locations in a reservoir and can each include a well drilling rig 152 a-d. Generally, each of the wells 152 a-d includes one or more sensors that are configured to measure data during the drilling and production processes. The sensors of each well 152 a-d are configured to measure respective well data 154 a-d (collectively well data 154) such as flow rate in a wellbore, a wellbore pressure, a wellbore temperature, fluid composition, a well depth, and so forth. Each of the wells 152 sends respective well data 154 a-d over the network 162 to the control center 160. The control center 160 includes a data processing system that is configured to receive the well data 154, process the well data, and generate operational commands 156 a-d (collectively operational commands 156) for each of the respective wells 152 a-d. The operational commands 156 are configured to control well production at each of the respective wells 154 a-d. The well production is controlled based on an optimal well production that is determined by the data processing system at the control center 160. The optimal well production represents a maximum or nearly maximum well production that a given well can output based on the constraints of the reservoir and of the hardware at the actual well rig.
[0043]
Each of the one or more wells 152 can be represented by a digital twin (e.g., digital twin 126). Each of the one or more wells can be simulated by one or more digital agents 106. The simulation models 110 and digital twins 126 described previously can be trained based on operational data from the physical hardware of the system 150. The simulation models 110 can be hyper accurate to train the digital twins 126 for high-fidelity emulation of the hardware assets (e.g., of the hardware platform 122). For example, the labeled data 158 can be used for training the simulation models 130 for generating the digital twins 126. The labeled data 158 represents operational data of the hardware that are labeled with specific actions representing an action or operation for that hardware. The action or operation can be triggered through natural language commands through the interface 112. For example, sensor data from the hardware, such as wells 152 a-d or from the production facility 160, can be labeled with the operation that is represented by those sensor data. The simulation models 130 can be trained to mimic these sensor readings, from particular hardware, responsive to input commands through the interface 112. The digital twins 126 of these hardware elements are thereby capable of high-fidelity emulation the hardware.
[0044]
In some implementations, responsive to the measured values of the respective production variables at a well, the data processing system of production facility 160 is configured to determine a target production for that well and one or more other wells at the reservoir. For example, the data processing system is configured to maximize oil production overall in a reservoir by monitoring production from each of the individual wells 152 a-d within the reservoir. The data processing system is configured to periodically or continuously receive well data 154 from the wells 152, the process the well data using the optimization model subsequently described and update well production targets to optimize hydrocarbon output at the reservoir. The data processing system is configured to generate operational commands 156 that cause the wells 152 to produce at or near the respective target production rates specified by the output of the optimization model. The operational commands specify instructions that because the hardware at the respective wells 152 a-d to pump water, extract hydrocarbons, or otherwise operate the well to achieve the specified target production.
[0045]
The data processing system of the production facility 160 controls operation of each of the wells 152 at a reservoir to maximize overall hydrocarbon production for the reservoir. For example, the data processing system can set production rates for a particular well 152 a-d based on production rates set for one or more of the other wells 152 a-d at the reservoir. In an example, the data processing system maximizes a hydrocarbon production for a particular well in the reservoir without accounting for production rates at one or more other wells at the reservoir. In some implementations, the data processing system can be controlled through the interface 112 for inputting commands to control operations of the one or more wells 152 a-d.
[0046]
FIG. 2 illustrates a flow diagram showing a process 200 for using one or more digital agents to execute a production simulation. The process 200 can be executed by the data processing system 100 described in reference to FIGS. 1A-1B. the process 200 can include receiving, at step 202, a user command that loads a production simulation. The user command can simply include a title, name, general subject matter, or other reference to the simulation that is to be executed. The one or more digital agents previously described in reference to FIGS. 1A-1B can interpret the command and identify one or more simulations that are intended to be loaded by the user. And some implementations, the one or more digital agents may suggest or list the most relevant production simulations based on the command input by the user.
[0047]
The data processing system, at step 204 of processed 200, is configured to automatically generate executable code configured to launch the identified production simulation. At step 208, the data processing system is configured to prompt the user when the simulation is ready to be executed. The one or more digital agents prompt the user for options specifying exactly how the production simulation is to be executed. For example, a user command can specify that a simulation stream is intended to be adjusted, or that one or more parameter values are to be changed. For example, the one or more parameter values can include adjustment of a stream temperature, flow rate, pressure, and so forth.
[0048]
The data processing system, at step 210 of process 200, is configured to send the generated executable code including the instructions to execute the production simulation. For example, as shown in FIG. 2 , a user command specifying that a temperature change is to be introduced is received at step 208. The one or more digital agents configure the instruction to comport with the input of the production simulation. At step 210, the one or more digital agents send the instruction to adjust the stream temperature to the production simulator 104. In this example, adjusting the stream temperature is one or more of the available commands or sub-simulations that can be performed from the set of available simulations 110, previously described.
[0049]
The data processing system, at step 212 of process 200, is configured to execute the sub module or sub-simulation that was specified in the command 210 that was generated by the one or more digital agents. At step 212, the one or more sub-simulations Execute and generate output data. Once the sub-simulations have executed, the one or more digital agents are configured to stream the output data to the client device 108 of the user. As shown in this example, a user can simply speak, write, or otherwise input as simple instruction into the one or more digital agents, and the one or more digital agents can interpret this command, access the appropriate sub-simulation, and cause the desired portion of the production simulator to execute and generate the requested data. This guides the user to execute the requested sub-simulation without enabling the user to upset or otherwise introduce errors to other portions of the production simulation that is executing.
[0050]
The data processing system, at step 214 of process 200, is configured to automatically write, if necessary, the output data to a particular database that is specified as receiving such data. Therefore, the necessary data is automatically stored at the location that is expected in the production simulation environment.
[0051]
At step 216 of process 200 the data processing system again prompts the user for further input. At step 216, the production simulation has completed the previously requested sub-simulations and is ready for further portions of the production simulation to be executed. A user of the client device 108 can therefore understand that the production simulation is ready for further input. In the example shown in process 200, at step 218, the user command is received to save the state of the production simulation and exit the simulation.
[0052]
Further instructions or other sub-simulations can be instructed to execute at this stage. For example, if an invalid sub-simulation or simulation model is requested, the one or more digital agents may specify which other sub-simulations or other aspects of the production simulation are required as prerequisites before the requested sub-simulation can be executed. In this way, the one or more digital agents of the data processing system guide the user to properly execute the production simulation. The one or more digital agents ensure that the user causes one or more specific sub-simulations to be executed in the correct sequence. The one or digital agents ensure that the production simulation generates all prerequisite data before a particular sub-simulation for production asset is executed. The one or more digital agents therefore streamline the execution of the production simulation because they recommend or otherwise guide the user to perform sub-simulations in the proper sequence. In some examples, the one or more digital agents assessed an untrained user by specifying which unexecuted sub-simulations or other models are to be executed prior to the identified model. The one or more digital agents assist a user in obtaining the desired results quickly and efficiently. The guided use of the production simulator ensures that the generated simulation results are valid.
[0053]
Additionally, the one or more digital agents can represent digital twins, as previously described. This enables a user to perform a realistic simulation of a particular production facility rather than a generic production facility. For example, a user can train using digital twins representing the physical hardware of a particular production facility that the user subsequently operates for extraction of hydrocarbons. The guided simulation can enable a user to familiarize him or herself with the physical hardware of the production facility.
[0054]
The data processing system, at step 220 of process 200, is configured to generate the command for saving the production simulation at its current state and exiting the production simulation. The data processing system is configured, at step 222, to await further instructions.
[0055]
FIG. 3 illustrates a flow diagram showing a process 300 for using one or more digital agents to execute a production simulation. The data processing system 100 previously described can be configured to execute process 300. The process 300 includes receiving (302), through a client device, an instruction for executing a portion of a production simulation. The process 300 includes, responsive to receiving the instruction, accessing (304) one or more digital agents. The one or more digital agents are trained with training data representing one or more production simulations, the training data associating one or more simulation assets with respective data signatures each representing a scenario for executing a given simulation asset within the production simulation. At least one of the one or more simulation assets includes the portion of the production simulation. The process 300 includes accessing (306), by the one or more digital agents, the simulation asset including the portion of the production simulation of the instruction, the process 300 includes executing (308) the portion of the production simulation to generate output data. the process 300 includes providing (310) the output data to the client device.
[0056]
In some implementations, the one or more digital agents are available to the client device as a service. In some implementations, the one or more simulation assets include a digital twin representing the process or production. In some implementations, the one or more simulation assets include a sub-simulation asset. The sub-simulation asset is configured to generate a specific data output that is specified in the instruction. In some implementations, the instruction is received through an interface comprising a chatbot. In some implementations, the instruction is received responsive to providing the client device with one or more options for executing their production simulation.
[0057]
In some implementations, the process 300 includes providing, to the client device, one or more suggestions for one or more prerequisite portions of the production simulation that is required prior to executing the portion of the production simulation identified in the instruction.
[0058]
FIG. 4 is a block diagram of an example computing system 400 used to provide computational functionalities associated with described algorithms, methods, functions, processes, flows, and procedures described in the present disclosure, according to some implementations of the present disclosure. The illustrated computer 402 is intended to encompass any computing device such as a server, a desktop computer, a laptop/notebook computer, a wireless data port, a smart phone, a personal data assistant (PDA), a tablet computing device, or one or more processors within these devices, including physical instances, virtual instances, or both. The computer 402 can include input devices such as keypads, keyboards, and touch screens that can accept user information. Also, the computer 402 can include output devices that can convey information associated with the operation of the computer 402. The information can include digital data, visual data, audio information, or a combination of information. The information can be presented in a graphical user interface (UI) (or GUI).
[0059]
The computer 402 can serve in a role as a client, a network component, a server, a database, a persistency, or components of a computer system for performing the subject matter described in the present disclosure. The illustrated computer 402 is communicably coupled with a network 424. In some implementations, one or more components of the computer 402 can be configured to operate within different environments, including cloud-computing-based environments, local environments, global environments, and combinations of environments.
[0060]
The computer 402 is an electronic computing device operable to receive, transmit, process, store, and manage data and information associated with the described subject matter. According to some implementations, the computer 402 can also include, or be communicably coupled with, an application server, an email server, a web server, a caching server, a streaming data server, or a combination of servers.
[0061]
The computer 402 can receive requests over network 424 from a client application (for example, executing on another computer 402). The computer 402 can respond to the received requests by processing the received requests using software applications. Requests can also be sent to the computer 402 from internal users (for example, from a command console), external (or third) parties, automated applications, entities, individuals, systems, and computers.
[0062]
Each of the components of the computer 402 can communicate using a system bus 404. In some implementations, any or all the components of the computer 402, including hardware or software components, can interface with each other or the interface 406 (or a combination of both), over the system bus 404. Interfaces can use an application programming interface (API) 414, a service layer 416, or a combination of the API 414 and service layer 416. The API 414 can include specifications for routines, data structures, and object classes. The API 414 can be either computer-language independent or dependent. The API 414 can refer to a complete interface, a single function, or a set of APIs.
[0063]
The service layer 416 can provide software services to the computer 402 and other components (whether illustrated or not) that are communicably coupled to the computer 402. The functionality of the computer 402 can be accessible for all service consumers using this service layer. Software services, such as those provided by the service layer 416, can provide reusable, defined functionalities through a defined interface. For example, the interface can be software written in JAVA, C++, or a language providing data in extensible markup language (XML) format. While illustrated as an integrated component of the computer 402, in alternative implementations, the API 414 or the service layer 416 can be stand-alone components in relation to other components of the computer 402 and other components communicably coupled to the computer 402. Moreover, any or all parts of the API 414 or the service layer 416 can be implemented as child or sub-modules of another software module, enterprise application, or hardware module without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.
[0064]
The computer 402 includes an interface 406. Although illustrated as a single interface 406 in FIG. 4 , two or more interfaces 406 can be used according to needs, desires, or particular implementations of the computer 402 and the described functionality. The interface 406 can be used by the computer 402 for communicating with other systems that are connected to the network 424 (whether illustrated or not) in a distributed environment. Generally, the interface 406 can include, or be implemented using, logic encoded in software or hardware (or a combination of software and hardware) operable to communicate with the network 424. More specifically, the interface 406 can include software supporting one or more communication protocols associated with communications. As such, the network 424 or the hardware of the interface can be operable to communicate physical signals within and outside of the illustrated computer 402.
[0065]
The computer 402 includes a processor 408. Although illustrated as a single processor 408 in FIG. 4 , two or more processors 408 can be used according to particular implementations of the computer 402 and the described functionality. Generally, the processor 408 can execute instructions and can manipulate data to perform the operations of the computer 402, including operations using algorithms, methods, functions, processes, flows, and procedures as described in the present disclosure.
[0066]
The computer 402 also includes a database 420 that can hold data (for example, simulator data 422) for the computer 402 and other components connected to the network 424 (whether illustrated or not). For example, database 420 can be an in-memory, conventional, or a database storing data consistent with the present disclosure. In some implementations, database 420 can be a combination of two or more different database types (for example, hybrid in-memory and conventional databases) according to particular implementations of the computer 402 and the described functionality. Although illustrated as a single database 420 in FIG. 4 , two or more databases (of the same, different, or combination of types) can be used according to particular implementations of the computer 402 and the described functionality. While database 420 is illustrated as an internal component of the computer 402, in alternative implementations, database 420 can be external to the computer 402.
[0067]
The computer 402 also includes a memory 410 that can hold data for the computer 402 or a combination of components connected to the network 424 (whether illustrated or not). Memory 410 can store any data consistent with the present disclosure. In some implementations, memory 410 can be a combination of two or more distinct types of memory (for example, a combination of semiconductor and magnetic storage) according to implementations of the computer 402 and the described functionality. Although illustrated as a single memory 410 in FIG. 4 , two or more memories 410 (of the same, different, or combination of types) can be used according to implementations of the computer 402 and the described functionality. While memory 410 is illustrated as an internal component of the computer 402, in alternative implementations, memory 410 can be external to the computer 402.
[0068]
The application 412 can be an algorithmic software engine providing functionality according to implementations of the computer 402 and the described functionality. For example, application 412 can serve as one or more components, modules, or applications. Further, although illustrated as a single application 412, the application 412 can be implemented as multiple applications 412 on the computer 402. In addition, although illustrated as internal to the computer 402, in alternative implementations, the application 412 can be external to the computer 402.
[0069]
The computer 402 can also include a power supply 418. The power supply 418 can include a rechargeable or non-rechargeable battery that can be configured to be either user- or non-user-replaceable. In some implementations, the power supply 418 can include power-conversion and management circuits, including recharging, standby, and power management functionalities. In some implementations, the power-supply 418 can include a power plug to allow the computer 402 to be plugged into a wall socket or a power source to, for example, power the computer 402 or recharge a rechargeable battery.
[0070]
There can be any number of computers 402 associated with, or external to, a computer system containing computer 402, with each computer 402 communicating over network 424. Further, the terms “client,” “user,” and other appropriate terminology can be used interchangeably, as appropriate, without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Moreover, the present disclosure contemplates that many users can use one computer 402 and one user can use multiple computers 402.
[0071]
FIG. 5 illustrates hydrocarbon production operations 500 that include both one or more field operations 510 and one or more computational operations 512, which exchange information and control exploration for the production of hydrocarbons. In some implementations, outputs of techniques of the present disclosure can be performed before, during, or in combination with the hydrocarbon production operations 500, specifically, for example, either as field operations 510 or computational operations 512, or both.
[0072]
Examples of field operations 510 include forming/drilling a wellbore, hydraulic fracturing, producing through the wellbore, injecting fluids (such as water) through the wellbore, to name a few. In some implementations, methods of the present disclosure can trigger or control the field operations 510. For example, the methods of the present disclosure can generate data from hardware/software including sensors and physical data gathering equipment (e.g., seismic sensors, well logging tools, flow meters, and temperature and pressure sensors). The methods of the present disclosure can include transmitting the data from the hardware/software to the field operations 510 and responsively triggering the field operations 510 including, for example, generating plans and signals that provide feedback to and control physical components of the field operations 510. Alternatively or in addition, the field operations 510 can trigger the methods of the present disclosure. For example, implementing physical components (including, for example, hardware, such as sensors) deployed in the field operations 510 can generate plans and signals that can be provided as input or feedback (or both) to the methods of the present disclosure.
[0073]
Examples of computational operations 512 include one or more computer systems 520 that include one or more processors and computer-readable media (e.g., non-transitory computer-readable media) operatively coupled to the one or more processors to execute computer operations to perform the methods of the present disclosure. The computational operations 512 can be implemented using one or more databases 518, which store data received from the field operations 510 and/or generated internally within the computational operations 512 (e.g., by implementing the methods of the present disclosure) or both. For example, the one or more computer systems 520 process inputs from the field operations 510 to assess conditions in the physical world, the outputs of which are stored in the databases 518. For example, seismic sensors of the field operations 510 can be used to perform a seismic survey to map subterranean features, such as facies and faults. In performing a seismic survey, seismic sources (e.g., seismic vibrators or explosions) generate seismic waves that propagate in the earth and seismic receivers (e.g., geophones) measure reflections generated as the seismic waves interact with boundaries between layers of a subsurface formation. The source and received signals are provided to the computational operations 512 where they are stored in the databases 518 and analyzed by the one or more computer systems 520.
[0074]
In some implementations, one or more outputs 522 generated by the one or more computer systems 520 can be provided as feedback/input to the field operations 510 (either as direct input or stored in the databases 518). The field operations 510 can use the feedback/input to control physical components used to perform the field operations 510 in the real world.
[0075]
For example, the computational operations 512 can process the seismic data to generate three-dimensional (3D) maps of the subsurface formation. The computational operations 512 can use these 3D maps to provide plans for locating and drilling exploratory wells. In some operations, the exploratory wells are drilled using logging-while-drilling (LWD) techniques which incorporate logging tools into the drill string. LWD techniques can enable the computational operations 512 to process information about the formation and control the drilling to adjust to the observed conditions in real-time.
[0076]
The one or more computer systems 520 can update the 3D maps of the subsurface formation as information from one exploration well is received and the computational operations 512 can adjust the location of the next exploration well based on the updated 3D maps. Similarly, the data received from production operations can be used by the computational operations 512 to control components of the production operations. For example, production well and pipeline data can be analyzed to predict slugging in pipelines leading to a refinery and the computational operations 512 can control machine operated valves upstream of the refinery to reduce the likelihood of plant disruptions that run the risk of taking the plant offline.
[0077]
In some implementations of the computational operations 512, customized user interfaces can present intermediate or final results of the above-described processes to a user. Information can be presented in one or more textual, tabular, or graphical formats, such as through a dashboard. The information can be presented at one or more on-site locations (such as at an oil well or other facility), on the Internet (such as on a webpage), on a mobile application (or app), or at a central processing facility.
[0078]
The presented information can include feedback, such as changes in parameters or processing inputs, that the user can select to improve a production environment, such as in the exploration, production, and/or testing of petrochemical processes or facilities. For example, the feedback can include parameters that, when selected by the user, can cause a change to, or an improvement in, drilling parameters (including drill bit speed and direction) or overall production of a gas or oil well. The feedback, when implemented by the user, can improve the speed and accuracy of calculations, streamline processes, improve models, and solve problems related to efficiency, performance, safety, reliability, costs, downtime, and the need for human interaction.
[0079]
In some implementations, the feedback can be implemented in real-time, such as to provide an immediate or near-immediate change in operations or in a model. The term real-time (or similar terms as understood by one of ordinary skill in the art) means that an action and a response are temporally proximate such that an individual perceives the action and the response occurring substantially simultaneously. For example, the time difference for a response to display (or for an initiation of a display) of data following the individual's action to access the data can be less than 1 millisecond (ms), less than 1 second(s), or less than 5 s. While the requested data need not be displayed (or initiated for display) instantaneously, it is displayed (or initiated for display) without any intentional delay, based on processing limitations of a described computing system and time required to, for example, gather, accurately measure, analyze, process, store, or transmit the data.
[0080]
Events can include readings or measurements captured by downhole equipment such as sensors, pumps, bottom hole assemblies, or other equipment. The readings or measurements can be analyzed at the surface, such as by using applications that can include modeling applications and machine learning. The analysis can be used to generate changes to settings of downhole equipment, such as drilling equipment. In some implementations, values of parameters or other variables that are determined can be used automatically (such as through using rules) to implement changes in oil or gas well exploration, production/drilling, or testing. For example, outputs of the present disclosure can be used as inputs to other equipment and/or systems at a facility. This can be especially useful for systems or various pieces of equipment that are located several meters or several miles apart or are located in different countries or other jurisdictions.
[0081]
Implementations of the subject matter and the functional operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry, in tangibly embodied computer software or firmware, in computer hardware, including the structures disclosed in this specification and their structural equivalents, or in combinations of one or more of them. Software implementations of the described subject matter can be implemented as one or more computer programs. Each computer program can include one or more modules of computer program instructions encoded on a tangible, non-transitory, computer-readable computer-storage medium for execution by, or to control the operation of, data processing apparatus. Alternatively, or additionally, the program instructions can be encoded in/on an artificially generated propagated signal. The example, the signal can be a machine-generated electrical, optical, or electromagnetic signal that is generated to encode information for transmission to suitable receiver apparatus for execution by a data processing apparatus. The computer-storage medium can be a machine-readable storage device, a machine-readable storage substrate, a random or serial access memory device, or a combination of computer-storage mediums.
[0082]
Computer readable media (transitory or non-transitory, as appropriate) suitable for storing computer program instructions and data can include all forms of permanent/non-permanent and volatile/non-volatile memory, media, and memory devices. Computer readable media can include, for example, semiconductor memory devices such as random-access memory (RAM), read only memory (ROM), phase change memory (PRAM), static random-access memory (SRAM), dynamic random-access memory (DRAM), erasable programmable read-only memory (EPROM), electrically erasable programmable read-only memory (EEPROM), and flash memory devices. Computer readable media can also include, for example, magnetic devices such as tape, cartridges, cassettes, and internal/removable disks. Computer readable media can also include magneto optical disks and optical memory devices and technologies including, for example, digital video disc (DVD), CD ROM, DVD+/−R, DVD-RAM, DVD-ROM, HD-DVD, and BLURAY. The memory can store various objects or data, including caches, classes, frameworks, applications, modules, backup data, jobs, web pages, web page templates, data structures, database tables, repositories, and dynamic information. Types of objects and data stored in memory can include parameters, variables, algorithms, instructions, rules, constraints, and references. Additionally, the memory can include logs, policies, security or access data, and reporting files. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by, or incorporated in, special purpose logic circuitry.
[0083]
Any claimed implementation is applicable to at least a computer-implemented method; a non-transitory, computer-readable medium storing computer-readable instructions to perform the computer-implemented method; and a computer system comprising a computer memory interoperable coupled with a hardware processor configured to perform the computer-implemented method or the instructions stored on the non-transitory, computer-readable medium.
[0084]
While this specification contains many specific implementation details, these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of what may be claimed, but rather as descriptions of features that may be specific to implementations. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate implementations can also be implemented, in combination, in a single implementation. Conversely, various features that are described in the context of a single implementation can also be implemented in multiple implementations, separately, or in any suitable sub-combination. Moreover, although previously described features may be described as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such, one or more features from a claimed combination can, in some cases, be excised from the combination, and the claimed combination may be directed to a sub-combination or variation of a sub-combination.
Claims (20)
Hide Dependent 
What is claimed is:
1. A method for executing a production simulation, the method comprising:
receiving, through a client device, an instruction for executing a portion of a production simulation;
responsive to receiving the instruction, accessing one or more digital agents, the one or more digital agents configured and trained with training data representing actions for operating one or more production simulations, the training data associating one or more simulation assets with respective data signatures each representing a scenario for executing a given simulation asset within the production simulation, wherein at least one of the one or more simulation assets includes the portion of the production simulation;
accessing, by the one or more digital agents, the simulation asset including the portion of the production simulation of the instruction;
executing the portion of the production simulation to generate output data; and
providing the output data to the client device.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more digital agents are available to the client device as a service.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more simulation assets include a digital twin representing a piece of physical hardware in the production.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more simulation assets include a sub-simulation asset, the sub-simulation asset configured to generate a specific data output that is specified in the instruction.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the instruction is received through an interface comprising a chat bot or a digital input interface.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the instruction is received responsive to providing the client device with one or more options for executing their production simulation.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
providing, to the client device, one or more suggestions for one or more prerequisite portions of the production simulation that is required prior to executing the portion of the production simulation identified in the instruction.
8. A system configured for executing a production simulation, the system comprising:
one or more processors; and
a memory storing instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising:
receiving, through a client device, an instruction for executing a portion of a production simulation;
responsive to receiving the instruction, accessing one or more digital agents, the one or more digital agents configured and trained with training data representing actions for operating one or more production simulations, the training data associating one or more simulation assets with respective data signatures each representing a scenario for executing a given simulation asset within the production simulation, wherein at least one of the one or more simulation assets includes the portion of the production simulation;
accessing, by the one or more digital agents, the simulation asset including the portion of the production simulation of the instruction;
executing the portion of the production simulation to generate output data; and
providing the output data to the client device.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the one or more digital agents are available to the client device as a service.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the one or more simulation assets include a digital twin Representing a piece of physical hardware in the production.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the one or more simulation assets include a sub-simulation asset, the sub-simulation asset configured to generate a specific data output that is specified in the instruction.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the instruction is received through an interface comprising a chat bot or a digital input interface.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the instruction is received responsive to providing the client device with one or more options for executing their production simulation.
14. The system of claim 8, further comprising:
providing, to the client device, one or more suggestions for one or more prerequisite portions of the production simulation that is required prior to executing the portion of the production simulation identified in the instruction.
15. One or more non-transitory computer readable media storing instructions for executing a production simulation, the instructions, when executed by one or more processors, configured for causing the one or more processors to perform operations comprising:
receiving, through a client device, an instruction for executing a portion of a production simulation;
responsive to receiving the instruction, accessing one or more digital agents, the one or more digital agents configured and trained with training data representing actions for operating one or more production simulations, the training data associating one or more simulation assets with respective data signatures each representing a scenario for executing a given simulation asset within the production simulation, wherein at least one of the one or more simulation assets includes the portion of the production simulation;
accessing, by the one or more digital agents, the simulation asset including the portion of the production simulation of the instruction;
executing the portion of the production simulation to generate output data; and
providing the output data to the client device.
16. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 15, wherein the one or more digital agents are available to the client device as a service.
17. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 15, wherein the one or more simulation assets include a digital twin Representing a piece of physical hardware in the production.
18. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 15, wherein the one or more simulation assets include a sub-simulation asset, the sub-simulation asset configured to generate a specific data output that is specified in the instruction.
19. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 15, wherein the instruction is received responsive to providing the client device with one or more options for executing their production simulation.
20. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 15, further comprising:
providing, to the client device, one or more suggestions for one or more prerequisite portions of the production simulation that is required prior to executing the portion of the production simulation identified in the instruction.

WO2024263921A1：

Description
CONTROLLING PROCESS SIMULATION MODELS WITH DIGITAL AGENTS
CLAIM OF PRIORITY
[0001] This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 63/509,460, filed on June 21, 2023, and U.S. Utility Patent Application No. 18/749,052, filed on June 20, 2024, the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0002] This specification relates generally to production simulations associated with gas field and oilfield production. For example, this specification describes digital agent interfaces for use in reservoir simulations and reservoir process control systems.
BACKGROUND
[0003] A data processing system can simulate operations of the reservoir using production simulators. The production simulators are configured to simulate the operation of geophysics within the reservoir in response to various operations in the reservoir, such as performing hydraulic fracturing, performing well drilling, performing seismic measurements, or other operations in the reservoir. In some implementations, hardware within the reservoir can be emulated using a digital twin. A digital twin is a digital representation of an intended or actual real-world physical product, system, or process (a physical twin) that serves as the effectively indistinguishable digital counterpart of it for practical purposes, such as simulation, integration, testing, monitoring, and maintenance.
SUMMARY
[0004] This disclosure describes digital agents which operate as an interface between a production simulator and an operator of the production simulator. The one or more digital agents may enable a user to operate the production simulator correctly by providing guided instructions for operating the production simulation while a simulation is taking place. For example, the digital agent may suggest which aspects of the simulation should be changed, which simulator assets should be leveraged, how the simulator should be controlled during execution, flag any potential errors or inconsistencies for simulation operation, and otherwise guide execution of the production simulator.
[0005] A data processing system includes one or more digital agents that are configured to detect when a specific asset for a production simulator is potentially useful and suggest the one or more simulator assets to the user. The one or more digital agents are trained to detect, and offer, which simulation scenarios generally require the use of specific assets of the production simulator in order to successfully simulate them. The one or more digital agents therefore can greatly assist a technician in operation of the production simulator and guide the technician to properly simulate the asset and in a manner that is consistent with other simulations that are being performed. The one or more digital agents are software platforms independent and issue commands accordingly to execute the chosen simulation accordingly.
[0006] The described implementations can provide numerous technical benefits. Production simulators execute on specialized client devices that include specialized interfaces. The interfaces for production simulators are based on the operations of this production simulator, which include many (e.g., dozens of) inputs, controls, and other interactive objects for controlling the simulation of the production. The interface is complicated and therefore requires substantial training for the production simulations to be executed to obtain a reasonable simulation output.
[0007] In addition to the specialized interface, there is minimal automation between the interface of the production simulators and the corresponding digital twins or other simulation assets that are available to the production simulator. For example, the production simulator may have submodules, digital twin assets, or other sub-simulations to execute within the larger production simulation. These simulator assets may need to be activated by an operator at specific times or in specific circumstances that are recognized by a trained user. The execution of the production simulation can therefore an experienced technician to manually operate the production simulator such as leveraging one or more of the available assets at specific times or in specific circumstances. In this example an experienced technician may be a technician with understanding of the production or other desired outcomes of the production simulation. The technician has an intimate understanding of the available assets. The technician understands when to access and execute these assets during the production simulation to enable and optimal simulator output. The production simulation may therefore be inconsistent depending on the skill of the given operator of the simulator.
[0008] To overcome these issues, a digital agent acts as an interface between the production simulator and the operator. The digital agent guides a user for operation of the production simulator during the simulation. The digital agent includes an intuitive interface that enables an untrained user to operate the production simulator without preexisting knowledge of the interface and which specific controls and digital assets are in the production simulator. Additionally, the digital agent enables a user that does not have pre-existing understanding of process concepts to successfully operate the production simulator. The digital agent can guide operation of the simulation by suggesting various simulator assets to execute at appropriate times and specifying what various outcomes can be achieved by executing these simulator assets.
[0009] One or more of the above advantages are enabled by the following embodiments. [0010] In a general aspect, a method for executing a production simulation includes receiving, through a client device, an instruction for executing a portion of a production simulation; responsive to receiving the instruction, accessing one or more digital agents, the one or more digital agents configured and trained with training data representing actions for operating one or more production simulations, the training data associating one or more simulation assets with respective data signatures each representing a scenario for executing a given simulation asset within the production simulation, wherein at least one of the one or more simulation assets includes the portion of the production simulation; accessing, by the one or more digital agents, the simulation asset including the portion of the production simulation of the instruction; executing the portion of the production simulation to generate output data; and providing the output data to the client device.
[0011] In some implementations the one or more digital agents are available to the client device as a service.
[0012] In some implementations, the one or more simulation assets include a digital twin representing a piece of physical hardware in the production.
[0013] In some implementations, the one or more simulation assets include a subsimulation asset, the sub-simulation asset configured to generate a specific data output that is specified in the instruction. [0014] In some implementations, the instruction is received through an interface comprising a chat hot or a digital input interface.
[0015] In some implementations, the instruction is received responsive to providing the client device with one or more options for executing their production simulation.
[0016] In some implementations the process includes providing, to the client device, one or more suggestions for one or more prerequisite portions of the production simulation that is required prior to executing the portion of the production simulation identified in the instruction.
[0017] In some implementations a system is configured for executing a production simulation. The includes one or more processors; and a memory storing instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform the operations of the previously described processes.
[0018] In a general aspect, one or more non-lransilory computer readable media store instructions for executing a production simulation. The instructions, when executed by one or more processors, are configured for causing the one or more processors to perform the previously described processes.
[0019] The details of one or more embodiments are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features and advantages will be apparent from the description and drawings, and from the claims.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0020] FIG. 1 A illustrates an interface for one or more digital agents.
[0021] FIG. IB illustrates an interface for one or more physical platforms.
[0022] FIG. 1C illustrates an example system for hydrocarbon well production.
[0023] FIG. 2 illustrates a flow diagram showing a process for using one or more digital agents to execute a production simulation.
[0024] FIG. 3 illustrates a flow diagram showing a process for using one or more digital agents to execute a production simulation.
[0025] FIG. 4 is a diagram of an example computing system.
[0026] FIG. 5 is a diagram of example hydrocarbon production operations. DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0027] This disclosure describes a data processing system including one or more digital agents that together provide an automated interface between one or more assets of a production simulator and an operator of the production simulator. The one or more digital agents may enable a user to operate the production simulator by providing guided instructions for operating the production simulator while a simulation is taking place. For example, the digital agent may suggest updates to one or more parameter values of the simulator, which simulator assets or models should be leveraged in a given scenario, flag any potential errors or inconsistencies in operation, and otherwise guide a user during performance of the production simulator.
[0028] In some implementations, the one or more digital agents are configured to automatically launch, execute, and terminate assets model from a library of available asset models. The one or more digital agents are further configured to obtain simulation results by automatically updating operating parameter values without user intervention or with minimal user validation of such a change. The one or more digital agents therefore not only guide users to properly execute the production simulator but can also minimize or eliminate errors or other faults that may be introduced by the operator. The one or more digital agents also as previously stated can leverage the full library of available models depending on the particular scenario of the production simulation. The one or more digital agents can be trained based on prior previously run simulations to detect when each available model or other simulation asset is appropriate to suggest for execution or to execute automatically.
[0029] The one or more digital agents can provide an interface between the production simulation layer and the computing network of an entire organization that is operating many production simulations. Therefore, a specific production simulation can be available through the interface provided by the one or more digital agents to any user that is able to access the network. For example, the data processing system provides the one or more digital agents as a service to users on the network such that any user may access one or more digital agents for any production simulation. The data processing system makes the one or more digital agents available using remote call functions or any other supported methods as interfaces with simulation models/digital twins.
[0030] A user, through the interface of the one or more digital agents, can interact using written text or human speech with the agents to make requests and obtain results. These requests will trigger the agent to execute a specific model which is already developed and resides in an internal cloud or local workstation. The digital agent asks the user to wait until the model run is complete and then extract the results and present them to the user in a less technical form. If required, the user may be able to interact further with the agent to further interrogate into the results or asks for further information.
[0031] As described previously, the one or more digital agents can control or represent digital twins corresponding to physical hardware of a production facility. The physical hardware can include hardware for extracting hydrocarbons from a reservoir, refining hydrocarbons produced from a reservoir, or subsets of hardware for either of these scenarios or both of these scenarios. In these cases, the simulation is tailored to function exactly as the physical hardware it represents. A user can generate one or more control commands for operating the physical hardware that are first simulated using the digital twins of the interface. For example, the inputs and outputs of each simulation can mirror those provided to the physical hardware represented by the one or more digital twins controllable through the user interface.
[0032] In some implementations, the interface that is used for controlling the one or more digital twins can be used to control physical hardware represented by the one or more digital twins, such as when a simulation is successful. For example, the natural language input enabled by the chat bot or other interface can be used for controlling physical hardware for hydrocarbon production, the chat bot can be enabled for controlling physical hardware when simulations using the natural language inputs are successful or otherwise validated as properly performing the hydrocarbon production operations of the simulation. For example, when a natural language model for a particular digital asset is trained And simulations using that trained model are successful, the trained model can be applied to process natural language inputs for controlling physical hardware.
[0033] FIG. 1A illustrates a system 100 including an interface 112 for one or more digital agents 106 and a production simulator 104. The digital agents 106 and production simulator 104 together form a simulation platform 102. The one or more digital agents 106 can access one or more simulation models 110. The one or more digital agents 106 can use the simulation models 110 part of the production simulation. For example, the one or more digital agents 106 access the simulation models and suggest which of these assets are to be used as part of the production simulator 104. [0034] The one or more digital agents can include logic that specifies which circumstances of the simulation correspond to which simulation models 110. The one or more digital agents 106 are configured to recommend or suggest specific models, digital twins, or other simulation assets that are relevant to a particular production simulation. The one or more digital agents 106 may suggest specific parameter change to be inputted into the production model. For example, if a throughput capacity simulation is being executed, the digital agent 106 may recommend a specific set of flowrates to be inserted into the production simulation. In another example, if a rating simulation on a specific equipment is being performed, the digital agent may recommend specific parameters for adjustments and their values to be set as part of the simulation. In these examples, the digital agents 106 are configured to recommend specific parameters, models, digital twin assets, control adjustments, or other aspects of the simulation in order to guide a user to operate the simulator properly.
[0035] The one or more digital agents 106 may also constrain the production simulation in order to achieve realistic outcomes or otherwise guide a user in selection of parameter values. For example, if incompatible equipment is linked inside the simulation, the digital agents 106 may highlight this fault to the user and recommend an alternative equipment configuration. Such recommendations enable a user without specialized training or experience to configure and execute a production simulation fully utilizing all of the available simulation models 110 and other simulator assets that are available without having extensive knowledge of these available assets.
[0036] The one or more digital agents 106 may detect specific circumstances under which one or more simulation models 110 are appropriate for recommending to the user. For example, when data values of the simulation represent a specific data signature, the digital agent 106 may detect that a particular simulation model may need to be executed. The specific thresholds of these data values or parameter values maybe set based on training the digital agents 106 using machine learning approaches. For example, prior simulations that have been executed can be used as training data to train the one or more digital agents 106 in determining when specific assets of the simulation models 110 have been accessed during a production simulation and under what circumstances those simulation models were used. These training data can train the one or more digital agents 106 and therefore leverage prior production simulations that were executed by experienced technicians in order to recommend options for future production simulations executed by untrained users.
[0037] The data processing system 100 includes an interface 112. The interface 112 can include a user interface that simplifies operation of the simulation platform 102. The interface 112 can include more than just a visual user interface. The interface 112 can include dynamic controls that are generated based on the underlying intelligence of the one or more digital agents 106. For example, the interface 112 can be configured to ingest local commands of a user. In some implementations, the interface 112 is configured to automatically display or suggest various simulation model assets 110 to a user of a client device 108. The interface 112 may include a visualization of the execution of the production simulation. Generally, the purpose of the interface 112 is to greatly simplify the user interface of the production simulator 104 by removing access controls and instead allowing the one or more digital agents to suggest changes or updates to the production simulation as required during execution of the simulation. The interface 112 can therefore include only a few visual controls and can be generally operated based on responding to suggestions, alerts, recommendations, or other dynamically generated controls that only are displayed at a time in which those controls are relevant to changing operation of the production simulation.
[0038] The user commands can include natural language queries that are interpreted by language models of the simulation. The language models can be tailored to correspond to the specific circumstances under which the simulation is being executed. For example, depending on the physical hardware being simulated by the one or more digital twins of the simulation, particular commands can cause particular control signals to be generated for controlling one or more digital twins that are simulating the physical hardware. A language model can enable a user to execute complex operations without extensive training or specialized knowledge. For example, in particular production operations, user can be prompted to perform a particular test or request a specific sensor reading at a point in time at which the user should be doing so when operating the physical hardware Represented by the one or more digital twins of the simulation.
[0039] A language model can be associated with each digital asset such as each respective simulation model or each of the one or more digital twins. For example, a language model can operate using a particular vocabulary for a particular simulation or other digital asset. Different natural language commands can be associated with different control inputs for operating the physical hardware represented by digital twin or otherwise operating the simulation. For a different digital twin or simulation, the same vocabulary may correspond to a different input for controlling the physical hardware represented by the digital twin or for the simulation. Each of the language models can be trained for its particular simulation or other digital asset such as a digital twin to enable a user to input natural language queries that will always correspond to valid inputs for controlling the simulation or physical hardware represented by the digital twin. Therefore, a user can operate a complex hydrocarbon production operation for a particular facility without specialized training for operations at that particular facility, that particular set of hardware or simulation, or other specialized knowledge.
[0040] FIG. IB illustrates a system 120 for controlling one or more physical platforms 122. The client device 108 can be used to input natural language queries into an interface 112. The interface 112 can be trained with a particular language model based on training data 130 received from simulations as described herein. The training data 130 can be input into the digital twin 126 representing the hardware of the hardware platform 122 and can communicate with hardware controllers 114 that operate the hardware of the hardware platform 122.
[0041] The system 120 enables a user to interact with the hardware platform 122 using natural language queries using the natural language interface 112. Inputs, or commands provided through the interface 112 are recognized by the digital twin digital asset 126 which provides appropriate control inputs to the hardware controllers 114 for operation of hardware of the hardware platform 122. The digital twin 126 translates the natural language command(s) into inputs for the hardware controller 114 for causing the hardware platform 122 to perform the action of the natural language command. The digital twin 126, or other digital asset, can generate responses to the natural language queries provided though the interface 112. In some implementations, the digital twin 126 can generate prompts for additional commands or instructions for further controlling the hardware platform 122. The prompts or commands can be generated by the interface 112 responsive to receiving data, from the digital twin 126 or other digital asset, that the hardware platform 122 has completed execution of operations represented by one or more previous commands received through the interface 112.
[0042] FIG. 1C shows a system 150 for hydrocarbon well production. The system 150 includes a plurality of wells 152a-d (collectively wells 152), a control center 160, and a network 162. The plurality of wells 152 are at various locations in a reservoir and can each include a well drilling rig 152a-d. Generally, each of the wells 152a-d includes one or more sensors that are configured to measure data during the drilling and production processes. The sensors of each well 152a-d are configured to measure respective well data 154a-d (collectively well data 154) such as flow rate in a wellbore, a wellbore pressure, a wellbore temperature, fluid composition, a well depth, and so forth. Each of the wells 152 sends respective well data 154a-d over the network 162 to the control center 160. The control center 160 includes a data processing system that is configured to receive the well data 154, process the well data, and generate operational commands 156a-d (collectively operational commands 156) for each of the respective wells 152a- d. The operational commands 156 are configured to control well production at each of the respective wells 154a-d. The well production is controlled based on an optimal well production that is determined by the data processing system at the control center 160. The optimal well production represents a maximum or nearly maximum well production that a given well can output based on the constraints of the reservoir and of the hardware at the actual well rig.
[0043] Each of the one or more wells 152 can be represented by a digital twin (e.g., digital twin 126). Each of the one or more wells can be simulated by one or more digital agents 106. The simulation models 110 and digital twins 126 described previously can be trained based on operational data from the physical hardware of the system 150. The simulation models 110 can be hyper accurate to train the digital twins 126 for high- fidelity emulation of the hardware assets (e.g., of the hardware platform 122). For example, the labeled data 158 can be used for training the simulation models 130 for generating the digital twins 126. The labeled data 158 represents operational data of the hardware that are labeled with specific actions representing an action or operation for that hardware. The action or operation can be triggered through natural language commands through the interface 112. For example, sensor data from the hardware, such as wells 152a-d or from the production facility 160, can be labeled with the operation that is represented by those sensor data. The simulation models 130 can be trained to mimic these sensor readings, from particular hardware, responsive to input commands through the interface 112. The digital twins 126 of these hardware elements are thereby capable of high-fidelity emulation the hardware. [0044] In some implementations, responsive to the measured values of the respective production variables at a well, the data processing system of production facility 160 is configured to determine a target production for that well and one or more other wells at the reservoir. For example, the data processing system is configured to maximize oil production overall in a reservoir by monitoring production from each of the individual wells 152a-d within the reservoir. The data processing system is configured to periodically or continuously receive well data 154 from the wells 152, the process the well data using the optimization model subsequently described and update well production targets to optimize hydrocarbon output at the reservoir. The data processing system is configured to generate operational commands 156 that cause the wells 152 to produce at or near the respective target production rates specified by the output of the optimization model. The operational commands specify instructions that because the hardware at the respective wells 152a-d to pump water, extract hydrocarbons, or otherwise operate the well to achieve the specified target production.
[0045] The data processing system of the production facility 160 controls operation of each of the wells 152 at a reservoir to maximize overall hydrocarbon production for the reservoir. For example, the data processing system can set production rates for a particular well 152a-d based on production rates set for one or more of the other wells 152a-d at the reservoir. In an example, the data processing system maximizes a hydrocarbon production for a particular well in the reservoir without accounting for production rates at one or more other wells at the reservoir. In some implementations, the data processing system can be controlled through the interface 112 for inputting commands to control operations of the one or more wells 152a-d.
[0046] FIG. 2 illustrates a flow diagram showing a process 200 for using one or more digital agents to execute a production simulation. The process 200 can be executed by the data processing system 100 described in reference to FIGS. 1 A-1B. the process 200 can include receiving, at step 202, a user command that loads a production simulation. The user command can simply include a title, name, general subject matter, or other reference to the simulation that is to be executed. The one or more digital agents previously described in reference to FIGS. 1A-1B can interpret the command and identify one or more simulations that are intended to be loaded by the user. And some implementations, the one or more digital agents may suggest or list the most relevant production simulations based on the command input by the user. [0047] The data processing system, at step 204 of processed 200, is configured to automatically generate executable code configured to launch the identified production simulation. At step 208, the data processing system is configured to prompt the user when the simulation is ready to be executed. The one or more digital agents prompt the user for options specifying exactly how the production simulation is to be executed. For example, a user command can specify that a simulation stream is intended to be adjusted, or that one or more parameter values are to be changed. For example, the one or more parameter values can include adjustment of a stream temperature, flow rate, pressure, and so forth.
[0048] The data processing system, at step 210 of process 200, is configured to send the generated executable code including the instructions to execute the production simulation. For example, as shown in FIG. 2, a user command specifying that a temperature change is to be introduced is received at step 208. The one or more digital agents configure the instruction to comport with the input of the production simulation. At step 210, the one or more digital agents send the instruction to adjust the stream temperature to the production simulator 104. In this example, adjusting the stream temperature is one or more of the available commands or sub-simulations that can be performed from the set of available simulations 110, previously described.
[0049] The data processing system, at step 212 of process 200, is configured to execute the sub module or sub-simulation that was specified in the command 210 that was generated by the one or more digital agents. At step 212, the one or more sub-simulations Execute and generate output data. Once the sub-simulations have executed, the one or more digital agents are configured to stream the output data to the client device 108 of the user. As shown in this example, a user can simply speak, write, or otherwise input as simple instruction into the one or more digital agents, and the one or more digital agents can interpret this command, access the appropriate sub-simulation, and cause the desired portion of the production simulator to execute and generate the requested data. This guides the user to execute the requested sub-simulation without enabling the user to upset or otherwise introduce errors to other portions of the production simulation that is executing.
[0050] The data processing system, at step 214 of process 200, is configured to automatically write, if necessary, the output data to a particular database that is specified as receiving such data. Therefore, the necessary data is automatically stored at the location that is expected in the production simulation environment.
[0051] At step 216 of process 200 the data processing system again prompts the user for further input. At step 216, the production simulation has completed the previously requested sub-simulations and is ready for further portions of the production simulation to be executed. A user of the client device 108 can therefore understand that the production simulation is ready for further input. In the example shown in process 200, at step 218, the user command is received to save the state of the production simulation and exit the simulation.
[0052] Further instructions or other sub-simulations can be instructed to execute at this stage. For example, if an invalid sub-simulation or simulation model is requested, the one or more digital agents may specify which other sub-simulations or other aspects of the production simulation are required as prerequisites before the requested subsimulation can be executed. In this way, the one or more digital agents of the data processing system guide the user to properly execute the production simulation. The one or more digital agents ensure that the user causes one or more specific sub-simulations to be executed in the correct sequence. The one or digital agents ensure that the production simulation generates all prerequisite data before a particular sub-simulation for production asset is executed. The one or more digital agents therefore streamline the execution of the production simulation because they recommend or otherwise guide the user to perform sub-simulations in the proper sequence. In some examples, the one or more digital agents assessed an untrained user by specifying which unexecuted subsimulations or other models are to be executed prior to the identified model. The one or more digital agents assist a user in obtaining the desired results quickly and efficiently. The guided use of the production simulator ensures that the generated simulation results are valid.
[0053] Additionally, the one or more digital agents can represent digital twins, as previously described. This enables a user to perform a realistic simulation of a particular production facility rather than a generic production facility. For example, a user can train using digital twins representing the physical hardware of a particular production facility that the user subsequently operates for extraction of hydrocarbons. The guided simulation can enable a user to familiarize him or herself with the physical hardware of the production facility. [0054] The data processing system, at step 220 of process 200, is configured to generate the command for saving the production simulation at its current state and exiting the production simulation. The data processing system is configured, at step 222, to await further instructions.
[0055] FIG. 3 illustrates a flow diagram showing a process 300 for using one or more digital agents to execute a production simulation. The data processing system 100 previously described can be configured to execute process 300. The process 300 includes receiving (302), through a client device, an instruction for executing a portion of a production simulation. The process 300 includes, responsive to receiving the instruction, accessing (304) one or more digital agents. The one or more digital agents are trained with training data representing one or more production simulations, the training data associating one or more simulation assets with respective data signatures each representing a scenario for executing a given simulation asset within the production simulation. At least one of the one or more simulation assets includes the portion of the production simulation. The process 300 includes accessing (306), by the one or more digital agents, the simulation asset including the portion of the production simulation of the instruction, the process 300 includes executing (308) the portion of the production simulation to generate output data, the process 300 includes providing (310) the output data to the client device.
[0056] In some implementations, the one or more digital agents are available to the client device as a sen ice. In some implementations, the one or more simulation assets include a digital twin representing the process or production. In some implementations, the one or more simulation assets include a sub-simulation asset. The sub-simulation asset is configured to generate a specific data output that is specified in the instruction. In some implementations, the instruction is received through an interface comprising a chatbot. In some implementations, the instruction is received responsive to providing the client device with one or more options for executing their production simulation.
[0057] In some implementations, the process 300 includes providing, to the client device, one or more suggestions for one or more prerequisite portions of the production simulation that is required prior to executing the portion of the production simulation identified in the instruction.
[0058] FIG. 4 is a block diagram of an example computing system 400 used to provide computational functionalities associated with described algorithms, methods, functions, processes, flows, and procedures described in the present disclosure, according to some implementations of the present disclosure. The illustrated computer 402 is intended to encompass any computing device such as a server, a desktop computer, a laptop/notebook computer, a wireless data port, a smart phone, a personal data assistant (PDA), a tablet computing device, or one or more processors within these devices, including physical instances, virtual instances, or both. The computer 402 can include input devices such as keypads, keyboards, and touch screens that can accept user information. Also, the computer 402 can include output devices that can convey information associated with the operation of the computer 402. The information can include digital data, visual data, audio information, or a combination of information. The information can be presented in a graphical user interface (UI) (or GUI).
[0059] The computer 402 can serve in a role as a client, a network component, a server, a database, a persistency, or components of a computer system for performing the subject matter described in the present disclosure. The illustrated computer 402 is communicably coupled with a network 424. In some implementations, one or more components of the computer 402 can be configured to operate within different environments, including cloud-computing-based environments, local environments, global environments, and combinations of environments.
[0060] The computer 402 is an electronic computing device operable to receive, transmit, process, store, and manage data and information associated with the described subject matter. According to some implementations, the computer 402 can also include, or be communicably coupled with, an application server, an email server, a web server, a caching server, a streaming data server, or a combination of servers.
[0061] The computer 402 can receive requests over network 424 from a client application (for example, executing on another computer 402). The computer 402 can respond to the received requests by processing the received requests using software applications. Requests can also be sent to the computer 402 from internal users (for example, from a command console), external (or third) parties, automated applications, entities, individuals, systems, and computers.
[0062] Each of the components of the computer 402 can communicate using a system bus 404. In some implementations, any or all the components of the computer 402, including hardware or software components, can interface with each other or the interface 406 (or a combination of both), over the system bus 404. Interfaces can use an application programming interface (API) 414, a service layer 416, or a combination of the API 414 and service layer 416. The API 414 can include specifications for routines, data structures, and object classes. The API 414 can be either computer-language independent or dependent. The API 414 can refer to a complete interface, a single function, or a set of APIs.
[0063] The service layer 416 can provide software services to the computer 402 and other components (whether illustrated or not) that are communicably coupled to the computer 402. The functionality of the computer 402 can be accessible for all service consumers using this service layer. Software services, such as those provided by the service layer 416, can provide reusable, defined functionalities through a defined interface. For example, the interface can be software written in JAVA, C++, or a language providing data in extensible markup language (XML) format. While illustrated as an integrated component of the computer 402, in alternative implementations, the API 414 or the service layer 416 can be stand-alone components in relation to other components of the computer 402 and other components communicably coupled to the computer 402. Moreover, any or all parts of the API 414 or the service layer 416 can be implemented as child or sub-modules of another software module, enterprise application, or hardware module without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.
[0064] The computer 402 includes an interface 406. Although illustrated as a single interface 406 in FIG. 4, two or more interfaces 406 can be used according to needs, desires, or particular implementations of the computer 402 and the described functionality. The interface 406 can be used by the computer 402 for communicating with other systems that are connected to the network 424 (whether illustrated or not) in a distributed environment. Generally, the interface 406 can include, or be implemented using, logic encoded in software or hardware (or a combination of software and hardware) operable to communicate with the network 424. More specifically, the interface 406 can include software supporting one or more communication protocols associated with communications. As such, the network 424 or the hardware of the interface can be operable to communicate physical signals within and outside of the illustrated computer 402.
[0065] The computer 402 includes a processor 408. Although illustrated as a single processor 408 in FIG. 4, two or more processors 408 can be used according to particular implementations of the computer 402 and the described functionality. Generally, the processor 408 can execute instructions and can manipulate data to perform the operations of the computer 402, including operations using algorithms, methods, functions, processes, flows, and procedures as described in the present disclosure.
[0066] The computer 402 also includes a database 420 that can hold data (for example, simulator data 422) for the computer 402 and other components connected to the network 424 (whether illustrated or not). For example, database 420 can be an inmemory, conventional, or a database storing data consistent with the present disclosure. In some implementations, database 420 can be a combination of two or more different database types (for example, hy brid in-memory and conventional databases) according to particular implementations of the computer 402 and the described functionality. Although illustrated as a single database 420 in FIG. 4, two or more databases (of the same, different, or combination of types) can be used according to particular implementations of the computer 402 and the described functionality. While database 420 is illustrated as an internal component of the computer 402, in alternative implementations, database 420 can be external to the computer 402.
[0067] The computer 402 also includes a memory 410 that can hold data for the computer 402 or a combination of components connected to the network 424 (whether illustrated or not). Memory 410 can store any data consistent with the present disclosure. In some implementations, memory 410 can be a combination of two or more distinct types of memory (for example, a combination of semiconductor and magnetic storage) according to implementations of the computer 402 and the described functionality. Although illustrated as a single memory 410 in FIG. 4, two or more memories 410 (of the same, different, or combination of types) can be used according to implementations of the computer 402 and the described functionality. While memory 410 is illustrated as an internal component of the computer 402, in alternative implementations, memory 410 can be external to the computer 402.
[0068] The application 412 can be an algorithmic software engine providing functionality according to implementations of the computer 402 and the described functionality. For example, application 412 can serve as one or more components, modules, or applications. Further, although illustrated as a single application 412, the application 412 can be implemented as multiple applications 412 on the computer 402. In addition, although illustrated as internal to the computer 402, in alternative implementations, the application 412 can be external to the computer 402.
[0069] The computer 402 can also include a power supply 418. The power supply 418 can include a rechargeable or non-rechargeable battery that can be configured to be either user- or non-user-replaceable. In some implementations, the power supply 418 can include power-conversion and management circuits, including recharging, standby, and power management functionalities. In some implementations, the power-supply 418 can include a power plug to allow the computer 402 to be plugged into a wall socket or a power source to, for example, power the computer 402 or recharge a rechargeable battery.
[0070] There can be any number of computers 402 associated with, or external to, a computer system containing computer 402, with each computer 402 communicating over network 424. Further, the terms "client," "user," and other appropriate terminology can be used interchangeably, as appropriate, without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Moreover, the present disclosure contemplates that many users can use one computer 402 and one user can use multiple computers 402.
[0071] FIG. 5 illustrates hydrocarbon production operations 500 that include both one or more field operations 510 and one or more computational operations 512, which exchange information and control exploration for the production of hy drocarbons. In some implementations, outputs of techniques of the present disclosure can be performed before, during, or in combination with the hydrocarbon production operations 500, specifically, for example, either as field operations 510 or computational operations 512, or both.
[0072] Examples of field operations 510 include forming/drilling a wellbore, hydraulic fracturing, producing through the wellbore, injecting fluids (such as water) through the wellbore, to name a few. In some implementations, methods of the present disclosure can trigger or control the field operations 510. For example, the methods of the present disclosure can generate data from hardware/software including sensors and physical data gathering equipment (e.g., seismic sensors, well logging tools, flow meters, and temperature and pressure sensors). The methods of the present disclosure can include transmitting the data from the hardware/software to the field operations 510 and responsively triggering the field operations 510 including, for example, generating plans and signals that provide feedback to and control physical components of the field operations 510. Alternatively or in addition, the field operations 510 can trigger the methods of the present disclosure. For example, implementing physical components (including, for example, hardware, such as sensors) deployed in the field operations 510 can generate plans and signals that can be provided as input or feedback (or both) to the methods of the present disclosure.
[0073] Examples of computational operations 512 include one or more computer systems 520 that include one or more processors and computer-readable media (e.g., non-transitory computer-readable media) operatively coupled to the one or more processors to execute computer operations to perform the methods of the present disclosure. The computational operations 512 can be implemented using one or more databases 518, which store data received from the field operations 510 and/or generated internally within the computational operations 512 (e.g., by implementing the methods of the present disclosure) or both. For example, the one or more computer systems 520 process inputs from the field operations 510 to assess conditions in the physical world, the outputs of which are stored in the databases 518. For example, seismic sensors of the field operations 510 can be used to perform a seismic survey to map subterranean features, such as facies and faults. In performing a seismic survey, seismic sources (e.g., seismic vibrators or explosions) generate seismic waves that propagate in the earth and seismic receivers (e.g., geophones) measure reflections generated as the seismic waves interact with boundaries between layers of a subsurface formation. The source and received signals are provided to the computational operations 512 where they are stored in the databases 518 and analyzed by the one or more computer systems 520.
[0074] In some implementations, one or more outputs 522 generated by the one or more computer sy stems 520 can be provided as feedback/input to the field operations 510 (either as direct input or stored in the databases 518). The field operations 510 can use the feedback/input to control physical components used to perform the field operations 510 in the real world.
[0075] For example, the computational operations 512 can process the seismic data to generate three-dimensional (3D) maps of the subsurface formation. The computational operations 512 can use these 3D maps to provide plans for locating and drilling exploratory wells. In some operations, the exploratory wells are drilled using loggingwhile-drilling (LWD) techniques which incorporate logging tools into the drill string. LWD techniques can enable the computational operations 512 to process information about the formation and control the drilling to adjust to the observed conditions in realtime.
[0076] The one or more computer systems 520 can update the 3D maps of the subsurface formation as information from one exploration well is received and the computational operations 512 can adjust the location of the next exploration well based on the updated 3D maps. Similarly, the data received from production operations can be used by the computational operations 512 to control components of the production operations. For example, production well and pipeline data can be analyzed to predict slugging in pipelines leading to a refinery and the computational operations 512 can control machine operated valves upstream of the refinery to reduce the likelihood of plant disruptions that run the risk of taking the plant offline.
[0077] In some implementations of the computational operations 512, customized user interfaces can present intermediate or final results of the above-described processes to a user. Information can be presented in one or more textual, tabular, or graphical formats, such as through a dashboard. The information can be presented at one or more on-site locations (such as at an oil well or other facility), on the Internet (such as on a webpage), on a mobile application (or app), or at a central processing facility.
[0078] The presented information can include feedback, such as changes in parameters or processing inputs, that the user can select to improve a production environment, such as in the exploration, production, and/or testing of petrochemical processes or facilities. For example, the feedback can include parameters that, when selected by the user, can cause a change to, or an improvement in, drilling parameters (including drill bit speed and direction) or overall production of a gas or oil well. The feedback, when implemented by the user, can improve the speed and accuracy of calculations, streamline processes, improve models, and solve problems related to efficiency, performance, safety, reliability, costs, downtime, and the need for human interaction.
[0079] In some implementations, the feedback can be implemented in real-time, such as to provide an immediate or near-immediate change in operations or in a model. The term real-time (or similar terms as understood by one of ordinary skill in the art) means that an action and a response are temporally proximate such that an individual perceives the action and the response occurring substantially simultaneously. For example, the time difference for a response to display (or for an initiation of a display) of data following the individual’s action to access the data can be less than 1 millisecond (ms), less than 1 second (s), or less than 5 s. While the requested data need not be displayed (or initiated for display) instantaneously, it is displayed (or initiated for display) without any intentional delay, based on processing limitations of a described computing system and time required to, for example, gather, accurately measure, analyze, process, store, or transmit the data.
[0080] Events can include readings or measurements captured by downhole equipment such as sensors, pumps, bottom hole assemblies, or other equipment. The readings or measurements can be analyzed at the surface, such as by using applications that can include modeling applications and machine learning. The analysis can be used to generate changes to settings of downhole equipment, such as drilling equipment. In some implementations, values of parameters or other variables that are determined can be used automatically (such as through using rules) to implement changes in oil or gas well exploration, production/drilling, or testing. For example, outputs of the present disclosure can be used as inputs to other equipment and/or systems at a facility. This can be especially useful for systems or various pieces of equipment that are located several meters or several miles apart or are located in different countries or other jurisdictions. [0081] Implementations of the subject matter and the functional operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry, in tangibly embodied computer software or firmware, in computer hardware, including the structures disclosed in this specification and their structural equivalents, or in combinations of one or more of them. Software implementations of the described subj ect matter can be implemented as one or more computer programs. Each computer program can include one or more modules of computer program instructions encoded on a tangible, non-transitory, computer-readable computer-storage medium for execution by, or to control the operation of, data processing apparatus. Alternatively, or additionally, the program instructions can be encoded in/on an artificially generated propagated signal. The example, the signal can be a machine-generated electrical, optical, or electromagnetic signal that is generated to encode information for transmission to suitable receiver apparatus for execution by a data processing apparatus. The computerstorage medium can be a machine-readable storage device, a machine-readable storage substrate, a random or serial access memory device, or a combination of computerstorage mediums. [0082] Computer readable media (transitory or non-transitory, as appropriate) suitable for storing computer program instructions and data can include all forms of permanent/non-permanent and volatile/non-volatile memory, media, and memory devices. Computer readable media can include, for example, semiconductor memory devices such as random-access memory (RAM), read only memory (ROM), phase change memory (PRAM), static random-access memory (SRAM), dynamic randomaccess memory (DRAM), erasable programmable read-only memory (EPROM), electrically erasable programmable read-only memory (EEPROM), and flash memory devices. Computer readable media can also include, for example, magnetic devices such as tape, cartridges, cassettes, and intemal/removable disks. Computer readable media can also include magneto optical disks and optical memory devices and technologies including, for example, digital video disc (DVD), CD ROM, DVD+/-R, DVD-RAM, DVD-ROM, HD-DVD, and BLURAY. The memory can store various objects or data, including caches, classes, frameworks, applications, modules, backup data, jobs, web pages, web page templates, data structures, database tables, repositories, and dynamic information. Types of objects and data stored in memory can include parameters, variables, algorithms, instructions, rules, constraints, and references. Additionally, the memory can include logs, policies, security or access data, and reporting files. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by, or incorporated in, special purpose logic circuitry.
[0083] Any claimed implementation is applicable to at least a computer-implemented method; a non-transitory, computer-readable medium storing computer-readable instructions to perform the computer-implemented method; and a computer system comprising a computer memory interoperable coupled with a hardware processor configured to perform the computer-implemented method or the instructions stored on the non-transitory, computer-readable medium.
[0084] While this specification contains many specific implementation details, these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of what may be claimed, but rather as descriptions of features that may be specific to implementations. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate implementations can also be implemented, in combination, in a single implementation. Conversely, various features that are described in the context of a single implementation can also be implemented in multiple implementations, separately, or in any suitable sub-combination. Moreover, although previously described features may be described as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such, one or more features from a claimed combination can, in some cases, be excised from the combination, and the claimed combination may be directed to a sub-combination or variation of a sub-combination.
Claims
Hide Dependent 
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A method for executing a production simulation, the method comprising: receiving, through a client device, an instruction for executing a portion of a production simulation; responsive to receiving the instruction, accessing one or more digital agents, the one or more digital agents configured and trained with training data representing actions for operating one or more production simulations, the training data associating one or more simulation assets with respective data signatures each representing a scenario for executing a given simulation asset within the production simulation, wherein at least one of the one or more simulation assets includes the portion of the production simulation; accessing, by the one or more digital agents, the simulation asset including the portion of the production simulation of the instruction; executing the portion of the production simulation to generate output data; and providing the output data to the client device.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more digital agents are available to the client device as a sendee.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more simulation assets include a digital twin representing a piece of physical hardware in the production.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more simulation assets include a sub-simulation asset, the sub-simulation asset configured to generate a specific data output that is specified in the instruction.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the instruction is received through an interface comprising a chat bot or a digital input interface.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the instruction is received responsive to providing the client device with one or more options for executing their production simulation.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: providing, to the client device, one or more suggestions for one or more prerequisite portions of the production simulation that is required prior to executing the portion of the production simulation identified in the instruction.
8. A system configured for executing a production simulation, the system comprising: one or more processors; and a memory storing instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: receiving, through a client device, an instruction for executing a portion of a production simulation; responsive to receiving the instruction, accessing one or more digital agents, the one or more digital agents configured and trained with training data representing actions for operating one or more production simulations, the training data associating one or more simulation assets with respective data signatures each representing a scenario for executing a given simulation asset within the production simulation, wherein at least one of the one or more simulation assets includes the portion of the production simulation; accessing, by the one or more digital agents, the simulation asset including the portion of the production simulation of the instruction; executing the portion of the production simulation to generate output data; and providing the output data to the client device.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the one or more digital agents are available to the client device as a sen ice.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the one or more simulation assets include a digital twin Representing a piece of physical hardware in the production.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the one or more simulation assets include a sub-simulation asset, the sub-simulation asset configured to generate a specific data output that is specified in the instruction.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the instruction is received through an interface comprising a chat hot or a digital input interface.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the instruction is received responsive to providing the client device with one or more options for executing their production simulation.
14. The system of claim 8, further comprising: providing, to the client device, one or more suggestions for one or more prerequisite portions of the production simulation that is required prior to executing the portion of the production simulation identified in the instruction.
15. One or more non-transitory computer readable media storing instructions for executing a production simulation, the instructions, when executed by one or more processors, configured for causing the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: receiving, through a client device, an instruction for executing a portion of a production simulation; responsive to receiving the instruction, accessing one or more digital agents, the one or more digital agents configured and trained with training data representing actions for operating one or more production simulations, the training data associating one or more simulation assets with respective data signatures each representing a scenario for executing a given simulation asset within the production simulation, wherein at least one of the one or more simulation assets includes the portion of the production simulation; accessing, by the one or more digital agents, the simulation asset including the portion of the production simulation of the instruction; executing the portion of the production simulation to generate output data; and providing the output data to the client device.
16. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 15, wherein the one or more digital agents are available to the client device as a service.
17. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 15, wherein the one or more simulation assets include a digital twin Representing a piece of physical hardware in the production.
18. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 15, wherein the one or more simulation assets include a sub-simulation asset, the subsimulation asset configured to generate a specific data output that is specified in the instruction.
19. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 15, wherein the instruction is received responsive to providing the client device with one or more options for executing their production simulation.
20. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 15, further comprising: providing, to the client device, one or more suggestions for one or more prerequisite portions of the production simulation that is required prior to executing the portion of the production simulation identified in the instruction.

US20260087387A1：

Description
4. DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
[0001]
FIG. 0 : Core Architecture of TNRAI: Five-Pillar Deliberation Framework illustrates the foundational architecture of the Transactional Neural Reasoning AI (TNRAI) system. The design simulates human-like deliberation by combining five core engines:
Delta-Path Model—Predicts ideal session outcomes and computes real-time deviation (deltas) to evaluate trajectory toward success.
Skew-Based Adversarial Model—Monitors for fraud, contradiction, or high-risk behavior using learned failure patterns and anomaly signals.
Vector Memory Engine—Encodes historical, behavioral, and contextual user data into high-dimensional embeddings for live recall and pattern matching.
Ambient Context Processor—Ingests environmental data (e.g., time, weather, events, load) and injects non-obvious overlays into decision pathways.
Multi-Logic Arbitration Engine—Executes a deliberative logic model that integrates multiple concurrent reasoning types (conditional, statistical, situational, historical, ambient) to form a unified decision output.
[0007]
These components interact in real time and feed their outputs to an Actionable Logic Layer, which selects and executes next actions, responses, or protocol escalations.
[0008]
Session outcomes are continuously monitored and routed through a CI/CD feedback pipeline, enabling the system to evolve dynamically over time. This architecture constitutes a novel class of AI
[0009]
FIG. 1 : Transactional Neural Reasoning AI Application design
[0010]
Presents the core system architecture for the Transactional Neural Reasoning AI, highlighting how internal and external data sources converge into a continuous reasoning cycle that informs and adapts user interactions in real time.
[0011]
FIG. 2 : Intent Vector Flow
[0012]
Shows how inputs are converted into vectorized memory, which is subsequently used for user intent inference and modified by behavioral or biometric overlays to generate derived logic used in session decisions.
[0013]
FIG. 3 : Confidence-Based Fallback Logic
[0014]
Illustrates a continuous integration and deployment loop used within the TNRAI system, wherein session data informs outcome tracking, feeding into a model testing, retraining, and redeployment pipeline that loops back to influence ongoing decision models.
[0015]
FIG. 4 : Delta Path Modeling
[0016]
shows the delta computation process in a neural network. After processing training data via forward feeding, the network calculates loss and determines weight adjustments based on deltas from ideal outcomes, reinforcing or adjusting logic parameters.
[0017]
FIG. 5 : Skew Based Detection
[0018]
Illustrates the injection of ambient data—processed by an ambient context module—into parallel logic paths within the TNRAI reasoning engine, contributing to output generation based on external contextual influence.
[0019]
FIG. 6 : Ambient Based Context
[0020]
Illustrates how static values and user-driven inputs are augmented by contextual overlays—such as market activity, weather, and time of day—to produce a reason-weighted navigation output. This output dynamically selects and prioritizes among various logic branches, including conditional, learned, statistical, and predictive logic modules, to guide transactional decisions.
[0021]
FIG. 7 : Conditional Triggers
[0022]
illustrates the decision cycle within the TNRAI engine. When an event trigger is detected, the system conducts engagement analysis to determine user intent and subsequently generates a contextually appropriate response.
[0023]
FIG. 8 : Multiple Logic Reasoning
[0024]
represents a predictive confidence scoring and escalation flow, specifically tied to consent logic and agent deflection based on TNRAI's assessment. This aligns closely with Claim 11, which discusses how the system initiates workflows when it detects low confidence or uncertainty in the user's ability to give informed consent.
[0025]
FIG. 9 : Action Feedback Loops
[0026]
Illustrates the injection of ambient data—processed by an ambient context module—into parallel logic paths within the TNRAI reasoning engine, contributing to output generation based on external contextual influence.
[0027]
FIG. 10 : Full Transactional Loop
[0028]
Depicts the dialectical reasoning loop—Thesis, Antithesis, and Synthesis—which serves as a conceptual model for reconciliation of competing logic streams in the TNRAI architecture.
[0029]
FIG. 11 : Applied Logic Flow
[0030]
illustrates the structured relationship between diverse reasoning logic modules, data sources, actionable logic components, and alternative decision pathways. The diagram emphasizes the layered approach TNRAI uses to evaluate, synthesize, and refine logic for real-time transactional AI decisions.
[0031]
FIG. 12 : AI Guided Agent to Conversion
[0032]
Illustrates a buyer with intent, interaction to conversion between the TRNAIG and agent working off of contextually adjusting perceived factors until it reaches High Confidence based on the
5. FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0033]
The present invention relates to artificial intelligence systems and, more specifically, to a novel class of AI termed Transactional Neural Reasoning AI (TNRAI). This class introduces a human-like deliberation framework to AI by leveraging a five-pillar architecture that enables real-time reasoning, contextual awareness, and adaptive logic during ongoing user interactions. Unlike conventional machine learning models or static logic systems, TNRAI continuously evaluates user behavior and environmental context through:
Delta-path modeling, which compares ongoing interaction trajectories to idealized goal paths,
Skew-based adversarial resilience, which detects known failure and fraud patterns in-session,
Vector memory recall, which allows high-dimensional behavioral and contextual recall during decision cycles,
Ambient reasoning overlays, which modulate decisions using situational data (e.g., location, weather, systemic stressors), and
Multi-logic arbitration engines, which integrate and reconcile multiple concurrent reasoning paradigms into a unified decision.
[0039]
These elements collectively simulate human-like cognition by dynamically weighting reasoning paths, detecting divergence or deception, and evolving decisions through real-time CI/CD feedback loops. This invention defines a new AI class focused not on predictive inference alone but on transactional reasoning —enabling machines to deliberate, adapt, and optimize outcomes within live interactions across diverse domains.
6. FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0040]
The present invention relates to artificial intelligence systems and, more specifically, to a novel class of AI termed Transactional Neural Reasoning AI (TNRAI). This class introduces a human-like deliberation framework to AI by leveraging a five-pillar architecture that enables real-time reasoning, contextual awareness, and adaptive logic during ongoing user interactions. Unlike conventional machine learning models or static logic systems, TNRAI continuously evaluates user behavior and environmental context through:
Delta-path modeling, which compares ongoing interaction trajectories to idealized goal paths,
Skew-based adversarial resilience, which detects known failure and fraud patterns in-session,
Vector memory recall, which allows high-dimensional behavioral and contextual recall during decision cycles,
Ambient reasoning overlays, which modulate decisions using situational data (e.g., location, weather, systemic stressors), and
Multi-logic arbitration engines, which integrate and reconcile multiple concurrent reasoning paradigms into a unified decision.
[0046]
These elements collectively simulate human-like cognition by dynamically weighting reasoning paths, detecting divergence or deception, and evolving decisions through real-time CI/CD feedback loops. This invention defines a new AI class focused not on predictive inference alone but on transactional reasoning—enabling machines to deliberate, adapt, and optimize outcomes within live interactions across diverse domains.
7. DESCRIPTION OF PRIOR ART
[0047]
Traditional AI inference engines and intent classifiers handle narrow tasks and often lack comprehensive contextual reasoning. For example, rule-based reasoning engines have been used to draw conclusions from environmental data or known facts, but typically rely on a single type of logic or pre-defined rules.
[0048]
Conventional conversational AI systems (chatbots) can derive an intent vector from a user's input and map it to probable intents, triggering a response if a confidence threshold is met. One such system uses a trigger control model (e.g. a logistic regression) to decide whether a chatbot should respond, based on the user's query and engagement context. Separately, predictive routing engines in contact centers combine business rules with statistical models to route customers to the best resource and adapt over time using outcome feedback (e.g. adjusting models when a call outcome is successful).
[0049]
Additionally, specialized machine learning pipelines have been developed for generating and deploying models, but these are often offline or require manual intervention for each update.
[0050]
While these prior approaches each address an aspect of intelligent decision-making, they operate in isolation. Intent classifiers focus on immediate input-output mapping and lack deeper reasoning or memory. Rule-based expert systems and reasoning engines can apply logic but do not learn from outcomes in real-time, and their use of context is limited. Continuous integration of new data into model updates (often referred to in MLOps) is rarely tied directly into the inference loop for live sessions. Moreover, conventional AI systems generally do not combine ideal outcome path modeling with adversarial case handling simultaneously. For instance, adversarial training of neural networks is known to improve robustness against small input perturbations, but this technique is typically applied during offline training rather than as a concurrent modeling stream in live reasoning. Similarly, context-aware recommendation systems can adjust outputs based on time, location or weather, but such ambient data is not usually woven into a unified, real-time decision engine alongside user-specific behavioral memory.
[0051]
In summary, the prior art lacks a cohesive AI engine that: (1) maintains a vectorized memory of session interactions to derive user intent in real time; (2) continuously tests and updates its predictive models during operation; (3) uses a dual modeling approach with delta-based “ideal path” predictions and skew-based adversarial patterns for robust outcome prediction; (4) leverages ambient context (time, weather, etc.) to influence decisions; and (5) integrates multiple reasoning logics with conditional triggers to take or recommend actions. The Transactional Neural Reasoning AI (TNRAI) described in this invention fills this gap by combining all these elements into a single, novel system.
8. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0052]
The invention is a Transactional Neural Reasoning AI (TNRAI) platform that introduces an integrated approach to session-based intelligence and decision automation. TNRAI fundamentally differs from traditional machine learning inference or NLP intent classifiers by treating each user session or transaction as a dynamic “transaction” that can be reasoned about, tested, and steered towards an optimal outcome in real time.
[0053]
In one aspect, the TNRAI system builds and maintains a vector-based memory of interactions. As users engage (via voice, text, clicks, or other modalities), TNRAI captures direct interaction data, relevant historical records, and behavioral signals, encoding them into a session vector or set of vectors. These vectors, stored in a vector memory, represent the context and inferred intent state of the ongoing session. Using this contextual memory, TNRAI performs real-time intent derivation—essentially computing an “intent vector” that reflects the probabilities or weights of various possible intents or goals of the user. Unlike static intent classification, this derivation continuously updates as the session progresses, referencing both immediate inputs and historical behavioral patterns (for example, past purchases or prior queries) to refine understanding.
[0054]
Another aspect of TNRAI is its continuous outcome testing and model integration pipeline. The system includes an automated CI/CD (Continuous Integration/Continuous Deployment) pipeline for its internal models and logic rules. As new vector data is generated during each session, TNRAI evaluates the outcomes of its decisions (e.g., whether a suggested action led to a successful result) and feeds this data back into model updates. These updates occur through a live pipeline of testing and deployment—for instance, TNRAI might run A/B tests or shadow evaluations of new logic versions on incoming session data. If a new model or rule set shows improved performance on recent outcomes, the system can seamlessly deploy it, thereby evolving its decision-making policy in near real time. This continuous learning loop ensures that TNRAI adapts quickly to changing user behaviors or environmental conditions, without waiting for offline retraining cycles.
[0055]
TNRAI's predictive capabilities are enhanced by a dual modeling approach: delta-based ideal path modeling and skew-based adversarial modeling. The delta-based model component generates an “ideal path” for a session—i.e., an optimal sequence of user-system interactions predicted to achieve the desired outcome (such as a successful transaction or problem resolution). By comparing the actual session trajectory to this ideal path, TNRAI computes a set of delta features representing the deviation between the current behavior and the optimal behavior. These delta values help the system gauge how far off-course a session might be and predict the likelihood of achieving the desired outcome if no intervention occurs. In parallel, the skew-based model component is trained on adversarial, misleading, or failed session data (the “corner cases”) to recognize patterns that typically lead to undesired outcomes. This adversarial trained sub-model acts as an anomaly or risk detector within TNRAI, raising flags or adjusting confidence when the current session exhibits characteristics like known failure patterns.
[0056]
Together, the ideal-path delta model and the skew-based adversarial model allow TNRAI to predict outcomes with greater accuracy and robustness: the ideal-path model drives the system toward success by knowing what should happen, while the skew model safeguards the system by recognizing what should not happen.
[0057]
In addition to user-derived data, TNRAI incorporates ambient reasoning using contextual data that is not provided directly by the user. This may include temporal data (time of day, day of week), environmental data (weather, local events), locational data, or system state data. These ambient factors are used to modulate the decision weights in TNRAI's reasoning process. For example, TNRAI might give additional weight to certain user intents during business hours versus late at night, or might alter its dialogue strategy if it detects inclement weather in the user's region (indicating the user could be in a hurry or distressed). Ambient context has been recognized in prior systems (e.g., using weather or location to tailor recommendations), but TNRAI uniquely folds this data into its internal reasoning engine, allowing indirect context to subtly influence outcomes (this is referred to as ambient reasoning). By considering non-obvious signals (like a spike in local activity or background device usage patterns), TNRAI achieves a more holistic understanding of the situation, akin to a human's intuition based on surroundings.
[0058]
The heart of TNRAI is a multi-modal reasoning engine that processes inputs through multiple internal logic types and synthesizes the results. Specifically, TNRAI's reasoning engine comprises a suite of sub-engines or logic units, each specialized in a particular form of reasoning: (1) Conditional logic—applying if-then rules or decision trees; (2) Mathematical reasoning—performing quantitative calculations or evaluations (e.g., scoring, thresholding); (3) Statistical inference—drawing probabilistic conclusions from data patterns; (4) Ambient context analysis—interpreting external context signals as described; (5) Situational (dynamic) analysis—evaluating the current state of the session (e.g., how long the user has been engaged, recent actions); and (6) Historical pattern matching—leveraging past session outcomes or known user history to inform the current decision. These diverse reasoning approaches run in parallel, or sequence as needed, and the engine combines their outputs to form a cohesive next action or decision. This design is inspired in part by cognitive architecture and expert systems that allow multiple inference methods; however, TNRAI's engine is novel in its breadth of logic types and tight integration with the other components (memory, ambient data, outcome feedback, etc.). The result is an AI that can, for example, use strict rule-based reasoning for compliance checks, while simultaneously using statistical prediction for user intent, and checking an ambient context condition—all contributing to the final decision.
[0059]
Finally, TNRAI includes an actionable logic engine that sits atop the reasoning outputs. This component is responsible for translating TNRAI's inferences and predictions into real-world action or responses. It applies derived rules (which may be dynamically generated by the reasoning engine), verifies predicted outcomes, and can also consider operator-defined alternatives or constraints (for cases where a human expert has provided specific guidance or rules). The actionable logic engine essentially decides what to do next—for instance, should the system ask the user a clarifying question, execute a transaction, invoke a safety protocol, or hand over control to a human operator. It uses the rich insight from TNRAI's reasoning to choose an action that is most likely to achieve the desired outcome. Importantly, this engine can also perform continuous testing of its actions. TNRAI monitors whether the actions taken indeed lead to successful outcomes and feeds that information back (closing the loop via the continuous integration pipeline). Over time, the actionable logic engine may update its rule set or selection strategy. This approach differs from static action selection in traditional chatbots or rule systems; for example, prior call routing systems had fixed rule+model combinations to decide routing, whereas TNRAI's action engine evolves through experience, creating a more legally defensible and adaptive framework for automated decision-making.
[0060]
In summary, TNRAI provides a completely new class of AI that unifies real-time vectorized intent memory, continuous model CI/CD, ideal-path vs. adversarial outcome modeling, ambient context integration, multi-form reasoning, and dynamic action execution. This yields an AI engine capable of transactional reasoning—it treats each session as a transaction to be optimized and completed with reasoning akin to human-level deliberation. TNRAI's architecture ensures technical advantages (like resilience to adversarial inputs and quick adaptability) and a clear differentiation from existing AI approaches that are either purely predictive (black-box models) or purely procedural (static rules). By combining these elements, TNRAI can provide context-rich, outcome-driven interactions in domains such as intelligent virtual assistants, session-based media controllers, autonomous customer service agents, and other systems requiring real-time reasoning and decision automation.
9. GLOSSARY OF TERMS
1. Transactional Neural Reasoning AI (TNRAI)
[0061]
A novel AI class that reasons across multiple rationale points and logic flows to derive user intent and predict session outcomes in real time with high accuracy and regularity based on continuous pipeline training, and treating every log file and event as business intelligence good, bad or ugly. Unlike traditional intent classifiers or statistical models, TNRAI combines rules based, conditional, and scores based contextual memory, continuous learns and improves, introduces ambient reasoning, and delta/skew modeling into a unified decision engine with actionable events and escalation patterns, as well as intent and path to desired outcome based execution.
2. Vector Memory
[0062]
A structured store of high-dimensional embeddings derived from live and historical session data. Used to inform real-time intent interpretation, behavior prediction, and outcome scoring in a format suitable for high speed algorithmic processing in a CI/CD pipeline runner.
3. Intent Vector
[0063]
A numerical representation of the user's inferred goals during any interaction session, this can be statically defined, reasonably derived, or a value derived from quizzing the intent of the responsible party over the AI engine, and this can be dynamically updated as contextual or behavioral data evolves, with notifications of changes allowing the AI engine to grow but do so in a calculated and ideal manner.
4. Delta-based Modeling
[0064]
A method for comparing a user's current session path against an ideal path and computing deviation (delta) metrics to assess the likelihood of success or to use as an indicator as to the degree of failure in an exercise. Having a perfect model set is crucial to the success of the TNRAI engine.
5. Skew Modeling
[0065]
The use of adversarial or failure-pattern data to recognize risk conditions and inject cautionary weighting into the system's reasoning pipeline, by having designed failures or guaranteed failure logic introduced routinely, the predictive, path to success, neural reasoning and on the fly ability to adapt to a changing engagement without setting itself up to fail. It is always adjusting based on the best and worst possible outcome to find a path to a desired outcome.
6. Ambient Context
[0066]
External data not directly related to the data flow in progress but when introduced as an overlay has potential to affect outcome. (e.g., time of day, location, weather, local events) used to inform decisions through environmental awareness.
7. CI/CD Pipeline
[0067]
An automated process for training, testing, and deploying new models and logic in real time, allowing the system to evolve continuously with fresh input data. All transactions, engagements, calls, interactions no matter the outcome become training instructions which are processed across every available condition to determine all possible outcomes, best possible outcome, worst possible outcome, all of which are assigned risk scores, cataloged and become usable intelligence.
8. Multi-Logic Reasoning Engine
[0068]
The central logic system is comprised of conditional logic, statistical inference, mathematical modeling, historical case retrieval, ambient interpretation, and situational analysis, this can be further extended for specific use cases by adding plugins build to empower the model.
9. Conditional Trigger Engine
[0069]
A system component that monitors session metrics and activates logic branches or security responses when defined conditions are met, and can create chained events based on further conditions.
10. Actionable Logic Engine
[0070]
Executes decisions based on the output of the reasoning engine, including rule validation, action scoring, operator-guided alternatives, and continuous performance feedback, historically identical engagements, and derived paths of outcome with score-based probabilities to determine the engagement value
11. Ideal Path
[0071]
A precomputed or learned optimal sequence of steps that when predicted and responses are favorable will lead to a successful task or desired outcome.
12. Adversarial Pattern
[0072]
A historical or inferred interaction pattern correlated with failure, fraud, or low confidence outcomes, used for risk analysis and mitigation.
13. Feedback Loop
[0073]
A closed loop where the outcome of each system action is recorded and used to retrain or refine future reasoning and decision processes, and by learning of success/failure events on transactions the model can attribute speech, movement, eye behavior, body movement, tone, speech cadence, hesitations and other human factors into data points which it can derive predictions with high accuracy, and determine misleading queues and intentional gaming of the model through routine testing, learning and strong statistical data backing.
14. Real Time Arbitration
[0074]
The process by which TNRAI evaluates outputs from multiple concurrent logic engines—including rule-based, statistical, situational, ambient, and historical systems—within the bounds of a live, ongoing user session. Arbitration is performed continuously and adaptively, producing a single synthesized decision output that reflects the weighted interplay of divergent logic paths. Unlike offline model voting or static rule prioritization, real-time arbitration is dynamic and context-sensitive, mirroring human-like deliberation across competing reasoning strategies.
15. Session Trajectory Similarity
[0075]
A vectorized measurement of how closely a current session aligns with a previously defined or idealized behavioral path. This similarity is computed using vector memory recall in combination with delta-based modeling to detect session drift, engagement breakdowns, or contextual mismatches. The session trajectory similarity metric enables the TNRAI system to preemptively adjust decisions or escalate interventions before a failure occurs. This term supports both session grading and live engagement strategy modulation.
16. Outcome Forecasting Mode
[0076]
A probabilistic logic layer that projects the likelihood of various session outcomes based on current interaction patterns, contextual overlays, and historical data. This model operates alongside delta-path tracking to anticipate successful or degraded paths and allows TNRAI to steer engagement toward the most favorable resolution. The forecasting model is updated continuously by the CI/CD pipeline and is used to refine ideal path mapping and outcome expectation weights across future sessions.
9. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0077]
System Architecture: Referring to FIG. 1 , the TNRAI system 100 comprises a set of interconnected modules that collectively perform transactional reasoning. These modules can be implemented in software, hardware, or a combination (e.g., microservices in a cloud environment orchestrating the TNRAI logic). The main components are: Vector Memory Module (110): This module receives Direct Interaction Data 111 from user sessions (e.g., live chat messages, voice transcripts, clicks, sensor readings), as well as queries a Historical Data Store 112 for relevant past records about the user or similar sessions. It also monitors Behavioral Signals 113 such as user hesitation, tone, or rapidity of actions. Module 110 encodes this information into one or more numeric vector representations. In one embodiment, it uses deep learning models to embed the current dialog state and recent history into a fixed-length intent vector. The vector memory may function akin to a vector database of session context, allowing similarity searches and retrieval of past patterns. For example, if a user has interacted before, the system can retrieve a stored embedding of that user's typical behavior to inform the current session. The output of module 110 is a real-time intent vector (or set of vectors) that summarizes what the user is trying to accomplish, continuously updated as new inputs arrive.
[0078]
This vector not only captures the explicit intent (e.g., “wants to book a flight” vs “asking a question about billing”) but also nuances like emotional state or urgency if available. By using a vectorized memory, the system preserves context across multiple modalities and time—something not achieved by prior single-turn intent classifiers.
[0079]
Continuous Integration/Continuous Deployment (CI/CD) Pipeline (120): Module 120 represents the automated pipeline for testing and deploying updates to TNRAI's models and rules. It interfaces with incoming data and feedback results 121 from the Actionable Logic Engine (150) to perform outcome testing. For instance, as each session concludes, it logs whether the outcome was successful or not (did the user achieve their goal?). Pipeline 120 may include a Model Testing environment 122 where new versions of the Intent derivation model, or the outcome prediction models, are evaluated using recent session data. It can perform techniques like shadow mode evaluation (running new models in parallel without affecting the live decision) or incremental rollout. A Continuous Training component 123 can trigger retraining of certain sub-models (like the ideal path or skew models) using accumulated new data.
[0080]
Once a candidate update proves to improve performance metrics (for example, higher success rate or faster resolution), a Deployment Manager 124 pushes the update to the live environment, effectively updating TNRAI's logic on the fly. This pipeline ensures TNRAI does not remain static; instead, it is self-evolving. Notably, this occurs during operation—unlike conventional systems that might retrain offline and deploy periodically, TNRAI's pipeline is an integral, always-on part of the architecture.
[0081]
Delta-Based Ideal Path Model (130): This component generates outcome predictions based on comparing current session progress to an ideal outcome scenario or “Gold Standard” dataset. Internally, it may utilize a library of Ideal Paths 131—sequences of events or behaviors that historically led to successful outcomes for similar contexts. For a given session, model 130 selects or constructs an ideal path (e.g., the optimal series of steps for the user to complete a purchase). It then computes Delta Metrics 132 by measuring differences between the session's actual path and the ideal path. Such differences could include missing steps, extra unnecessary steps, time delays, or out-of-sequence actions. These delta metrics are fed into a predictive algorithm that estimates the likelihood of success or failure if the session continues its current trajectory. For example, if key steps that are normally present in a successful session are absent so far, the model may predict a low success probability, prompting the system to intervene (perhaps by guiding the user to those steps or offering a coupon). The delta-based model thus provides a continuously updated gauge of outcome, essentially answering, “Are we on track to achieve the goal, and if not, how far off are we?” Skew-Based (Adversarial) Model (140): Running in parallel is module 140, trained specifically on negative or challenging scenarios designed to lead to failure. It contains an Adversarial Pattern Repository 141 of known failure modes—such as fraudulent behaviors, user inputs that often lead to dead-ends, or misleading cues that have tricked simpler models in the past. The skew model monitors the session data and intent vectors to detect any resemblance to these patterns.
[0082]
If the current session starts to match a known problematic pattern (for instance, a user providing contradictory information, or a potential bot/spam input in a chat), this model raises an alert or adjusts the confidence scores downward. In essence, module 140 provides a “second opinion” focused on what could go wrong. It outputs an Adversarial Risk Score 142 or a set of flags indicating detected issues. TNRAI can use this information to become more cautious e.g., require additional verification steps, or choose a safer action. By having a dedicated adversarial reasoning component, TNRAI is more resilient to anomalies and less likely to be fooled by inputs that would cause a normal intent model to err. This skew-based model is continuously updated via the CI/CD pipeline as new failure patterns are discovered, keeping the defensive knowledge current. Ambient Context Processor (160): Module 160 ingests Ambient Data 161 from external sources unrelated to the user's direct input. Examples include: current time/date, the user's geolocation (if known) and local weather or news, system load and network latency, IoT sensor data in the environment, or even aggregate trends (such as “many users in this region are asking similar questions today”), sports season, top ten sitcoms, political factors, lunar cycles, or any form of data that is not directly related to the existing data construct but when introduced as an overlay will affect the outcome. The processor normalizes and filters this data to identify contextual factors that might influence its reasoning. It produces:
[0083]
Context Signals 162 that are fed into both the Reasoning Engine and the outcome models. For instance, a context signal could be “lateNight=true” if the local time is after midnight, which the reasoning engine might interpret by prioritizing shorter, more direct interactions (assuming the user is tired or the business is closed). Or a signal could be a weather alert that causes TNRAI to adopt a more empathetic tone. These ambient signals act as additional features in the decision process, effectively adding a layer of situational awareness to TNRAI. Prior art systems might incorporate one or two such factors (e.g., location-based suggestions), but TNRAI can handle multiple context inputs and dynamically decide which are relevant via its reasoning logic, and by using its multimodal logic abilities in session, seemingly benign data becomes high value business intelligence that no one else is capable of producing because they do not have the algorithmic capabilities of the TNRAI engine.
[0084]
Reasoning Engine (170): This is the core logic orchestrator of TNRAI. The engine 170 consists of multiple Logic Units 171 a-171 f, each implementing a different reasoning strategy (additional units may be employed as required and programmed for the purpose and implemented through the API):
171 a Conditional Logic Unit: Implements rule-based reasoning (if X then Y). It evaluates any deterministic rules applicable to the session (some rules may be predefined by operators, others learned). For example, a rule might be “IF user intent=password reset AND user not authenticated, THEN require two-factor verification”.
171 b Mathematical/Computational Unit: Handles numeric computations or formula-based logic. It might calculate a trust score, add up a series of values, or perform threshold checks (e.g., compare a risk score against a reward outcome).
171 c Statistical Inference Unit: Applies probabilistic models, such as Bayesian inference or machine-learned classifiers, on the session data. This unit might use the output of a neural network or a Bayesian network to infer things like user intent probabilities, or likely next user action.
171 d Ambient Analysis Unit: Interprets the signals from the Ambient Context Processor (160). For instance, given context flags, it might adjust internal parameters or include context-specific facts (like “store is closed now”).
171 e Situational Unit: Focuses on the dynamic state of the ongoing session (the “situation”). This could include how long the session has gone on, how frustrated the user might be (derived from sentiment or repetition), or how many steps remain in the known process. It uses this to reason about urgency or pacing (e.g., if the session is dragging, it might suggest escalation).
171 f Historical Pattern Unit: Retrieves patterns or cases from past sessions that is has stored as a template in the database and is called when there are key patterns that match the current session, and can suggest actions that worked in those historical cases (akin to case-based reasoning and actions to potentially avoid. These templates and patterns are associated with specific scenarios which would only be callable when a scenario meeting one of the criteria is present. Example would be a PSTN call>Inbound to the system>Mobile User>Tmobile>Dialing a number across a trunk named “Sometrunk” Destined for Joe Customer. Then score the rest of the call values, talk time, agent, engagement, speech patterns, breathing irregularity, etc. . . . .
[0091]
The Reasoning Engine (170) takes inputs from the Vector Memory (110), the Ambient Processor (160), and the outputs of the outcome models (130 and 140). Each logic unit 171 a-f processes the input in its own manner. The engine then aggregates or arbitrates between their outputs using a Reasoning Orchestration Logic 172. The orchestration may assign different weights to different units depending on context. For example, in a highly regulated transaction, the Conditional Logic (rules) might take precedence to ensure compliance, whereas in a more open-ended help session, the Statistical Inference might dominate to interpret the user's needs. Then there are variables which are globally assigned, can be weighted by the Ais owner and used as last resort, priority based, or contextual/conditional weights when no other logical conclusion can be derived. With a well defined set of variables calculated for all potential favorable outcomes, and all possible outcomes of failure, the logic engine can reasonably deduce a path to success based on past decision making and data at hand. The result of the Reasoning Engine's work is a Decision Set 173—which can include an interpreted intent, recommended next action, predicted outcome if that action is taken, and alternative options if applicable. Importantly, the reasoning engine can also generate explanations for its conclusions by tracing which logic units contributed (a feature helpful for legal defensibility and transparency).
[0092]
Conditional Event Trigger Engine (180): As part of or alongside the reasoning engine is a trigger mechanism 180 that monitors certain conditions and thresholds. It uses the Decision Set and raw signals to decide if any predefined triggers should fire. Triggers can be thought of as instantaneous rules that cause an event in the system. Examples include: Confidence Trigger—if the confidence in the inferred intent falls below, say, 50%, trigger an “ask clarification” event; Anomaly Trigger—if the Skew Risk Score from module 140 exceeds a threshold, trigger a security challenge or alert; Goal Achieved Trigger—if an outcome prediction from module 130 is very high (meaning the user is essentially confirmed to achieve the goal), trigger an automatic completion or upsell suggestion. These triggers may bypass or expedite parts of the normal flow. They are defined by either the system designers or learned from experience. The Trigger Engine 180 ensures that TNRAI can react immediately to certain critical conditions rather than waiting for the entire reasoning cycle. It essentially interjects when specific logic patterns are matched or when vector-derived scores cross preset boundaries.
[0093]
This component differentiates TNRAI from systems that operate in a strictly sequential decision loop without interrupts.
[0094]
Actionable Logic Engine (150): The final component is responsible for taking action based on the reasoning outcomes. The Actionable Logic Engine 150 receives a Decision Set 173 (and any triggers 180 that fired). It then consults Action Rules Base 151 and an Operator Guidelines Database 152. The Action Rules Base may contain templates for actions (e.g., responses to user, workflow executions) and guardrails (e.g., do not perform certain actions without human approval). Operator Guidelines 152 might include business-specific policies or fallbacks defined by administrators (for instance, always transfer to a human agent if the user asks to cancel their account). Using these resources, engine 150 selects or formulates the best Action 153 to take. This could be: sending a message or prompt to the user, executing an API call to fulfill a transaction, logging the user out for security, etc. In some cases, the Actionable Engine might prepare multiple options (especially if uncertainty is high) and then either choose one based on additional quick tests or present options to a human operator for final say.
[0095]
A key feature of the Actionable Logic Engine is that it validates and tests predictions before fully committing. For example, if the reasoning engine strongly predicts an outcome, the action engine might do a brief verification like checking one more piece of information or asking a confirming question to the user i.e., an operator-defined alternative step. This ensures that mistakes can be caught before irreversibly acting (important for high-stakes transactions). Once an action is taken, the outcome (success, failure, user reaction, etc.) is fed back via the feedback loop 121 into the CI/CD Pipeline (120) and also recorded in the Historical Data (112). Over time, this means the system's memory and models improve. Notably, some prior systems combined rule-based actions with predictive models (e.g., routing a call using both rules and model outputs), but TNRAI's action engine extends this by dynamically generating new rules from its reasoning and by learning from each action's result in a closed loop.
[0096]
Operational Example: To illustrate TNRAI in action, consider a user interacting with an intelligent customer service system powered by TNRAI. The user begins a chat session about a billing issue. The Vector Memory (110) immediately retrieves the user's past purchase and support history, and starts vectorizing the new chat messages. The reasoning engine (170) identifies the user's intent as possibly “dispute a charge” with about 70% confidence from the statistical unit, but the conditional logic unit finds a rule that if a dispute is about a large amount, extra verification is needed. Ambient processor (160) notes it's a weekend (context), which might affect available options. The ideal path model (130) knows the optimal resolution usually involves gathering evidence and offering a refund or explanation within 10 minutes. The session so far is on track, but the skew model (140) flags that the user's phrasing resembles a known scam pattern (maybe the user is using form letters known from fraud). This lowers the overall confidence and triggers the Conditional Event Trigger (180) to require an identity verification event.
[0097]
TNRAI thus asks the user to verify some details (action engine 150 executing this prompt). The user complies, which lowers the skew risk. Now the reasoning engine confirms the intent as genuine. The ideal path model says time is running longer than optimal, so perhaps escalate. The actionable engine decides to expedite a refund approval action according to business policy (because the user provided verification and it's likely a valid dispute). It executes an API call to process the refund and sends a confirmation to the user—that's the final Action 153. The session ends successfully. TNRAI logs that outcome: dispute resolved, refund issued, user verified after prompt. The CI/CD pipeline (120) takes this log and will incorporate the pattern (legitimate dispute with initially suspicious language that got resolved after verification) into future training—possibly updating the skew model to be a bit less sensitive to that language when verification is present, and updating rules in the action engine to ask for verification in such cases. This scenario shows how TNRAI interweaves multiple reasoning threads (intent understanding, rule checking, fraud detection, timing optimization) and uses a trigger to handle a risk, ultimately taking a context-appropriate action, all in one continuous flow.
[0098]
Distinctiveness: TNRAI's architecture and operation are distinguishable from known AI systems in that it merges learning and reasoning in real time. It does not rely solely on a monolithic AI model (as many end-to-end deep learning systems do), but instead employs a modular reasoning strategy with transparent logic units. This makes it more explainable and adjustable—qualities often required for enterprise use and legal compliance. At the same time, it is not a fixed rule engine; it learns and adapts like a machine learning system, but at a pace and granularity much finer than traditional periodic retraining. Every session is an opportunity for both immediate optimal decision-making and for learning. By having ideal and adversarial models side by side, TNRAI also ensures a balanced approach—pursuing positive outcomes while guarding against negative ones.
[0099]
The integration of ambient context is another point of novelty. While context-aware AI exists, TNRAI's use of ambient signals as just another input to a unified reasoning engine (as opposed to a separate contextual filter or pre-processing step) is unique. This means context is considered at the same decision layer as user intent and rules, yielding more nuanced decisions that neither purely rule-based nor purely statistical systems can achieve.
[0100]
From a patentability perspective, each of these components and their interactions contribute to the inventive concept of TNRAI. In the claims that follow, various combinations of these features are defined to delineate the scope of the invention. Key inventive concepts include: the real-time vector memory for intent (Claim 1), the continuous integration of outcome feedback (Claim 1 and Claim 3), the dual-model outcome prediction (Claim 1, Claim 4, Claim 5), ambient data integration in reasoning (Claim 1 and Claim 6), conditional triggers (Claim 1 and Claim 7), multi-logic reasoning engine (Claim 1 and Claim 8), and the actionable logic feedback loop (Claim 1 and Claim 9). Each claim is supported by this detailed description and is intended to be interpreted in light of the examples and explanations provided herein.
Claims (10)
Hide Dependent 
1. A transactional artificial intelligence system A transactional artificial intelligence system configured to simulate human-like deliberation during live user sessions, the system comprising:
(a) a vector memory module configured to encode and retrieve high-dimensional vector representations of user behavior, historical interaction patterns, and session context in real time;
(b) a delta-based modeling engine operatively coupled to the vector memory module and configured to compute a deviation between a current session trajectory and a predefined ideal outcome path, the deviation being used to adjust confidence scores or engagement strategies;
(c) a skew-based adversarial detection module configured to compare live session data against a corpus of known failure modes, fraudulent patterns, or contradictory behaviors, and to generate risk-weighted scores that inform logic prioritization;
(d) an ambient context ingestion module configured to process environmental signals not directly provided by the user, including but not limited to time, location, system load, device state, or public event metadata, and to inject said contextual overlays into decision pathways;
(e) a multi-logic arbitration engine configured to evaluate concurrent outputs from multiple logic engines, the logic engines comprising:
(i) a conditional rule logic engine;
(ii) a statistical inference engine;
(iii) a situational analysis engine;
(iv) an ambient analysis engine; and
(v) a historical pattern recognition engine;
(f) an actionable logic engine operatively connected to the arbitration engine and configured to determine and execute next actions or engagement steps based on the synthesized decision output, the actions comprising:
(i) automated system responses;
(ii) workflow progression or escalation;
(iii) decision logging for audit or compliance; and
(iv) rule refinement or model feedback; and
(g) a continuous integration and feedback pipeline configured to monitor outcome success or failure metrics and dynamically retrain, test, and redeploy internal models, logic rules, or path mappings based on aggregated session data;
wherein the system is configured to operate in real time across multimodal user interfaces and to continuously evolve its decision-making logic in response to observed session behavior and external context, thereby simulating human-like transactional reasoning.
2. —Vector Memory for Session Recall The system of claim 1, wherein the vector memory module stores and retrieves session data as high-dimensional vectors in a vector database, enabling the system to recall and utilize past interaction contexts when interpreting current user inputs.
Relevant Prior Art:
U.S. Pat. No. 10,346,307B2—“Generating user intent vectors for NLP pipelines”
US20210293548A1—“Behavioral modeling in user sessions”
US20170350896A1—“Dynamic profiling using embeddings”
Comparative Analysis:
U.S. Pat. No. 10,346,307B2 teaches creation of user intent vectors for downstream use in NLP inference engines, but these vectors are static outputs, not actively updated during a live session. TNRAI's system instead creates persistent, evolving vector memory, acting as a session-bound context source, queried in real time by multiple logic systems.
US20210293548A1 discusses behavioral modeling through vectorized user profiles. However, this system is behaviorally anchored and retrospective, built for profiling rather than decision-state influence. TNRAI uses vector memory as an active reasoning substrate, enabling in-the-moment logic routing and evaluation.
US20170350896A1 introduces embeddings used for personalization within chatbot sessions. These embeddings are ephemeral and session-isolated, with no persistent vector recall or cross-session influence. TNRAI, by contrast, creates a retrievable, evolving memory store, referenced across sessions and learning pipelines.
Novelty Assessment:
The cited prior art uses vector embeddings primarily as passive representational artifacts. None disclose or suggest the use of real-time, session-aware vector memory that is actively updated, queried, and used to drive reasoning in an AI decision engine. TNRAI diverges from these static models by making vector memory a dynamic and central reasoning layer, forming a live, evolving memory store integrated into transactional logic and cross-session recall.
Novelty and Non-Obviousness Statement:
Whereas the cited references disclose vector embeddings as static or session-limited representations used primarily for downstream processing, behavioral profiling, or temporary personalization the present invention instead provides a persistent, high-dimensional vector memory architecture that evolves throughout and across user sessions. This vector memory is not an endpoint artifact but a central reasoning substrate, continuously updated and actively referenced in real time by the system's decision logic. The ability to retrieve, compare, and adapt logic paths based on live vector embeddings is neither taught nor suggested in the cited art. Accordingly, the claimed invention introduces a material and non-obvious improvement to session-based AI reasoning under 35 U.S.C. § § 102 and 103.
2. Continuous Integration Pipeline with Session-Linked Feedback Deployment The system of claim 1, wherein the continuous integration pipeline comprises an automated testing framework that evaluates new or modified intent prediction models and logic rules on live session data and automatically deploys updates upon determining improved outcome performance.
Relevant Prior Art:
US20190265955A1—“Automated deployment of ML models”
U.S. Pat. No. 10,817,377B2—“Managing model updates in AI systems”
US10909091B2—“Lifecycle orchestration of machine learning logic”
Comparative Analysis:
US20190265955A1 describes a system for automating the deployment of machine learning models. However, its deployment triggers are based on development pipeline events, not on outcome performance observed in real-time user interactions. There is no integration with per-session results as a metric for triggering deployment.
U.S. Pat. No. 10,817,377B2 outlines a framework for managing versions of AI models and updating those models across environments. This reference emphasizes staged updates, typically managed offline, with little or no linkage to actual inference outcomes occurring in the field during live user interactions.
US20190265955B2 discusses orchestrating AI lifecycle stages, including automated retraining and deployment. However, like the others, it relies on aggregated performance metrics, such as A/B testing or offline evaluation, rather than live user outcomes tied to real-time model testing as part of a reasoning system.
Novelty Assessment:
While machine learning CI/CD pipelines are known, they are generally activated through developer or system-level events, and focus on testing performance metrics using retrospective datasets. TNRAI introduces a novel pipeline that operates as part of the live inference engine itself, continually evaluating the performance of models and logic rules in response to ongoing session results, and immediately deploying updated versions where performance gains are observed. This tight coupling between session state and model lifecycle is not taught or suggested by the cited references.
Novelty and Non-Obviousness Statement:
Whereas the cited references disclose automated deployment and lifecycle tools for machine learning models based on offline analysis or static performance thresholds, the present invention instead provides a continuous integration pipeline that is intrinsically linked to live session outcomes. The pipeline autonomously evaluates candidate logic models in the context of actual user interactions, deploying updates dynamically when improved performance is observed in real-time. This direct feedback loop between session-level outcomes and model deployment is neither anticipated nor suggested by the art, and constitutes a novel and non-obvious advancement in adaptive AI systems under 35 U.S.C. § § 102 and 103.
3. Delta-Based Ideal Path Modeling The system of claim 1, wherein the delta-based ideal path model defines an optimal sequence of interactions for a given intent and computes a delta metric indicating a difference between the user's current interaction sequence and said optimal sequence, the delta metric being used to predict a likelihood of achieving a desired outcome or to identify when to intervene.
Relevant Prior Art:
US20220089313A1—“Goal path inference systems”
U.S. Pat No. 10,891,689B2—“User journey prediction using probabilistic models”
Comparative Analysis:
US20220089313A1 proposes systems for determining the best user path to achieve a goal using AI models, but the invention focuses on identifying likely routes based on historic data. It does not compute or act upon real-time deviations from a known optimal path during an ongoing session, nor does it use such deviation metrics to influence predictive or corrective logic.
U.S. Pat. No. 10,891,689B2 describes predicting user behavior by modeling probabilistic paths through a decision space. However, this system lacks an architectural element that defines an ideal path as a fixed or adaptive reference point, nor does it evaluate delta metrics between current behavior and that reference as part of active session management.
Novelty Assessment:
TNRAI introduces a live inference model that defines an ideal interaction sequence—based on intent and historical success—and uses this as a real-time comparator against actual user actions. The calculated delta is used to either predict session outcome confidence or trigger corrective interventions. This approach creates a real-time control system layered on top of behavioral prediction, enabling guidance rather than just forecasting. The use of a delta between actual and ideal interaction paths as a logical control mechanism is not disclosed or suggested in the cited references.
Novelty and Non-Obviousness Statement:
Whereas the cited references disclose techniques for predicting user behavior based on historical path patterns or probabilistic models, the present invention instead provides a real-time system for calculating deviation from a defined ideal interaction sequence. The system computes a delta metric during active sessions and uses this metric to influence predictive confidence or logic routing. This methodology transforms behavioral prediction into interactive path correction, a feature not anticipated or rendered obvious by the prior art. Accordingly, the invention constitutes a novel and non-obvious advancement in adaptive reasoning and session control under 35 U.S.C.
4. Skew-Based Adversarial Pattern Detection During Inference The system of claim 1, wherein the skew-based adversarial model is an adversarially trained component that monitors the interaction for patterns analogous to historically recorded failures or deceptive inputs, and upon detecting a threshold similarity to such a pattern, adjusts the reasoning engine's confidence or triggers a protective action.
Relevant Prior Art:
US20200028971A1—“Adversarial detection in AI systems”
US20180302628A1—“Adversarial robustness for NLP models”
U.S. Pat. No. 10,460,207B2—“Resilient decision systems for edge cases”
Comparative Analysis:
US20200028971A1 provides a mechanism for detecting adversarial examples during input processing and alerting the system to potential anomalies. However, this detection is used to flag input irregularities, not to actively influence the reasoning confidence of an AI logic engine mid-session.
US20180302628A1 describes defenses against adversarial inputs in NLP applications. The countermeasures are incorporated into the training process rather than operating as an active parallel monitor during runtime reasoning. These models do not maintain live adversarial detection or make real-time adjustments to inference pathways.
U.S. Pat. No. 10,460,207B2 focuses on creating AI systems that are robust to edge cases through model architecture tuning and pre-deployment simulation. It does not employ a dedicated sub-model to observe, compare, and alter the inference trajectory of an active session in response to suspected deception or failure-mode similarity.
Novelty Assessment:
TNRAI introduces a live, parallel adversarial inference model the skew model that monitors session progression in real time for alignment with historically known failure or deception patterns. This sub-model does not replace primary logic, but contributes by adjusting trust levels, reducing confidence in certain outputs, or triggering failsafe logic. The existence of a co-reasoning adversarial sub-engine monitoring live sessions and directly affecting the inference path represents a fundamental departure from static robustness training, making it a novel structural and functional component.
Novelty and Non-Obviousness Statement:
Whereas the cited references disclose adversarial detection primarily during offline training or as static input validation layers, the present invention instead provides a runtime skew-based model that continuously monitors the session for failure signatures and influences the primary reasoning engine's behavior. This adversarial engine functions as a co-processor to the main logic, dynamically adjusting confidence or triggering fallback procedures. No known art discloses or suggests this dual-inference model architecture for live session management. Accordingly, the claimed invention constitutes a non-obvious improvement in AI robustness and transactional reasoning under 35 U.S.C. § § 102 and 103.
5. Ambient Context Injection for Situational Reasoning The system of claim 1, wherein the ambient context module adjusts at least one parameter of the reasoning engine based on external contextual data selected from temporal cues, weather or environmental conditions, geolocation data, or local events, so that the system's decisions incorporate indirect situational awareness.
Relevant Prior Art:
U.S. Pat. No. 10,977,412B2—“Contextual AI using environmental cues”
US20170220960A1—“Ambient-aware assistant systems”
U.S. Pat. No. 10,650,001B2—“Location-aware inference engines”
Comparative Analysis:
U.S. Pat. No. 10,977,412B2 discloses AI systems that tailor responses based on ambient data such as time of day or weather conditions. However, these inputs are applied as filters or modifiers to content selection, not as logic-bearing influences on a reasoning engine's internal structure or thresholds.
US20170220960A1 proposes an assistant that uses ambient context to improve user experience through adjustments to output content or interface behavior. It does not involve multi-logic reasoning or permit context to dynamically affect AI inference flow or model selection.
U.S. Pat. No. 10,650,001B2 includes mechanisms for AI systems to change responses based on geolocation or environmental state, but focuses on permissions and access control rather than influencing the structure or output of the reasoning engine itself.
Novelty Assessment:
TNRAI's ambient context module is structurally integrated into its multi-logic reasoning engine and directly modulates inference weights, decision thresholds, or logic pathway selection in real time. Rather than serving as a filter or UI modifier, the ambient signals are first-class citizens in the reasoning process. This allows decisions to reflect indirect situational awareness, meaningfully shaping the AI's behavior even when user inputs remain unchanged. No prior art demonstrates such depth of integration between environmental data and real-time AI logic flow.
Novelty and Non-Obviousness Statement:
Whereas the cited references disclose ambient context systems that personalize outputs or adjust surface-level behavior based on environmental factors, the present invention instead injects ambient data directly into the reasoning core, altering logic thresholds and decision paths. This approach transforms contextual data from passive modifiers into active agents of decision-making, a feature not taught or suggested in the art. Accordingly, the claimed invention provides a novel and non-obvious advancement in context-aware reasoning under 35 U.S.C. § § 102 and 103.
6. Conditional Trigger Engine for Real-Time Flow Modification The system of claim 1, wherein the conditional trigger engine is configured to initiate a secondary process or event when an internal confidence score falls outside a specified range or when a predefined logic rule condition is met during the reasoning process, said event comprising at least one of: prompting the user for clarification, switching to an alternate decision strategy, escalating the session to a human operator, or executing a mitigating action.
Relevant Prior Art:
U.S. Pat. No. 10,755,290B2—“Confidence-based suppression systems for AI outputs”
U.S. Pat. No. 10,248,916B1—“Threshold-driven logic in NLP agents”
U.S. Pat. No. 10,810,704B2—“Interrupt-based AI response management”
Comparative Analysis:
U.S. Pat. No. 10,755,290B2 describes systems that suppress output when confidence is low. This mechanism functions as a binary gate to prevent delivery of unreliable answers but does not offer multi-path decisioning or escalation when thresholds are crossed.
U.S. Pat. No. 10,248,916B1 implements confidence scoring to determine if AI agents should ask follow-up questions, but does not include broader logic switching, mitigation, or escalation strategies. It is narrowly scoped to clarification prompts, not systemic flow adaptation.
U.S. Pat. No. 10,810,704B2 introduces interrupt-based controls that halt AI actions when predefined limits are breached, typically for fail-safe operation. However, these interrupts terminate processes rather than redirect them dynamically to alternate strategies.
Novelty Assessment:
TNRAI's conditional trigger engine enables multi-faceted event handling based on internal metrics like confidence scores or pattern detection. Rather than suppressing or halting responses, the system modifies its reasoning process mid-session, shifting to alternative strategies, prompting for clarification, or triggering escalation paths. This design allows adaptive continuity rather than interruption, offering a flexible, real-time adjustment framework absent from the cited references.
Novelty and Non-Obviousness Statement:
Whereas the cited references disclose static confidence gating, clarification-only prompts, or emergency process suppression, the present invention instead provides a conditional trigger mechanism that proactively redirects logic, switches reasoning strategies, or escalates sessions in real time based on threshold criteria. This dynamic modulation of session flow in response to internal diagnostic signals is not disclosed in prior art. Accordingly, the claimed invention introduces a novel and non-obvious control mechanism for adaptive session reasoning under 35 U.S.C. § § 102 and 103.
7. Multi-Logic Reasoning Engine with Unified Output Arbitration The system of claim 1, wherein the multi-logic reasoning engine comprises at least a rule-based logic unit, a statistical inference unit, and a historical case-based logic unit operating in parallel or sequence, and wherein the engine produces a unified decision output by combining results from these heterogeneous reasoning units.
Relevant Prior Art:
U.S. Pat. No. 10,846,732B2—“Hybrid AI reasoning systems”
U.S. Pat. No. 10,372,991B2—“Chained logic frameworks for decision systems”
US20190005359A1—“Layered inference models with fallback logic”
Comparative Analysis:
U.S. Pat. No. 10,846,732B2 describes AI systems capable of switching between logic types (e.g., rule-based and statistical), but only one logic engine is active at a time. The system does not evaluate multiple reasoning paths concurrently or merge their outcomes.
U.S. Pat. No. 10,372,991B2 teaches sequential fallback mechanisms where logic layers are chained—typically starting with deterministic logic and falling back to probabilistic inference. However, it lacks a mechanism to synthesize concurrent outputs into a unified decision, relying instead on cascading default logic.
US20190005359A1 introduces inference architectures that select among models using static criteria, such as performance or load balancing. These systems select which model to trust, not how to integrate distinct reasoning outcomes in real time.
Novelty Assessment:
TNRAI's engine allows simultaneous operation of multiple logic paradigms—deductive, statistical, and experiential—and uses a unified arbitration layer to combine their outputs into a singular decision. This design avoids the rigidity of fallback hierarchies or exclusive selection. Instead, it creates a logic consensus process that yields more robust, explainable, and adaptable inference outcomes, especially during uncertainty or conflicting signals. Such parallel, heterogeneous logic fusion is absent in known systems.
Novelty and Non-Obviousness Statement:
Whereas the cited references disclose systems that either switch between logic types or fall back to alternative strategies based on failure or performance thresholds, the present invention instead provides a unified reasoning engine in which rule-based, statistical, and case-based logics operate concurrently or in orchestrated sequence. Their outputs are actively fused by a coordination layer to form a single, arbitrated decision. This structure enables higher fidelity inference and greater fault tolerance and is not taught or suggested by any known art. Accordingly, the claimed invention satisfies the statutory requirements of novelty and non-obviousness under 35 U.S.C. § § 102 and 103.
8. Actionable Logic Engine with Real-Time Feedback-Based Rule Refinement The system of claim 1, wherein the actionable logic engine further comprises a feedback interface that records the outcome of each executed action and updates one or more decision rules or model parameters if the outcome deviates from an expected result, thereby refining future action selections.
Relevant Prior Art:
US20210212789A1—“Self-improving AI assistants with feedback loops”
U.S. Pt. No. 10,467,351B2—“Action tuning using result-based reinforcement”
US20180261165A1—“Interactive retraining in conversational AI systems”
Comparative Analysis:
US20210212789A1 outlines the use of logs and long-term metrics to improve assistant performance over time. However, its improvement mechanisms are post-session and batch-processed, not live or action-linked. It does not update logic rules during the same user interaction cycle.
U.S. Pat. No. 10,467,351B2 applies reinforcement learning to gradually adjust AI responses based on long-term reward signals. These systems lack a deterministic, rule-oriented logic layer that can be re-weighted or edited based on immediate outcome deviation.
US20180261165A1 teaches model retraining through supervised review of session transcripts, which then informs future deployments. However, it omits any in-session real-time refinement of the action execution logic or rule base, especially in closed-loop deployments.
Novelty Assessment:
TNRAI introduces an inference-time feedback loop directly embedded within the logic engine. When an executed action diverges from the predicted or intended result, the system immediately adjusts rules or model parameters to optimize future decisioning—even within the same operational context. This capability to refine logic in real time, based on immediate session outcomes, distinguishes TNRAI from passive learning and long-horizon feedback systems. The result is an AI engine that actively learns by doing—without requiring retraining or external triggers.
Novelty and Non-Obviousness Statement:
Whereas the cited references disclose delayed or batch-based feedback mechanisms that inform AI models over time, the present invention instead provides a real-time feedback interface embedded within the actionable logic engine. This mechanism records the success or failure of each action, and actively refines decision rules or parameters on the fly, without requiring retraining or offline processing. No known art teaches or suggests such immediate, session-based rule adaptation. Accordingly, the claimed invention represents a novel and non-obvious advancement in intelligent systems under 35 U.S.C. § § 102 and 103.
9. Method for Transactional Neural Reasoning with Real-Time Feedback and Adaptive Logic A computer-implemented method for transactional neural reasoning using an AI system, the method comprising:
(a) collecting interaction data from a user session and retrieving related historical context;
(b) generating an intent vector from the collected data that encapsulates the user's probable intent;
(c) predicting an outcome of the session via concurrently evaluating an ideal outcome path and known adversarial patterns against the session data;
(d) incorporating ambient context information into the evaluation by adjusting decision parameters based on external conditions;
(e) reasoning across multiple logic domains by applying rule-based checks, statistical inference, and historical pattern matching to the intent vector and context to determine a recommended action;
(f) triggering a conditional event during said reasoning if a confidence or pattern criterion is met, to modify the flow of interaction;
(g) executing an action responsive to the recommended action using an actionable logic engine; and
(h) updating the AI system's models or rules in real time by feeding back the outcome of the action and the session into a continuous integration pipeline, such that future iterations of steps (b)-(g) are improved.
Relevant Prior Art:
U.S. Pat. No. 10,248,916B1—“Decision engines with reactive trigger modules”
U.S. Pat. No. 10,846,732 B2—“Hybrid reasoning systems”
U.S. Pat. No. 10,467,351B2—“Action tuning based on reinforcement signals”
US20210212789A1—“Self-improving digital assistants”
Comparative Analysis:
U.S. Pat. No. 10,248,916B1 teaches using confidence scores to affect conversation flow in NLP systems, but does not combine adversarial logic, ambient context, or multi-logic arbitration in a single workflow. It also lacks real-time system learning via outcome feedback.
U.S. Pat. No. 10,846,732B2 describes switching between reasoning models but does not include logic fusion, vector memory, or contextual deltas. The models operate in isolation and lack unified adaptation mechanisms.
U.S. Pat. No. 10,467,351B2 and US20210212789A1 rely on reinforcement learning and post-session feedback aggregation, without any real-time adjustment to logic models, delta path evaluation, or simultaneous adversarial reasoning.
Novelty Assessment:
TNRAI's method is a closed-loop, adaptive reasoning framework that processes multimodal input, calculates session-specific deltas, evaluates logic concurrently across multiple domains, injects situational data, and immediately refines future reasoning through continuous model integration. This coordinated interaction of subsystems—across steps (a) through (h)—is not shown in any prior reference as a unified process. TNRAI transforms the reasoning session into an evolving event with learning, logic modulation, and ambient awareness all occurring in the same pipeline
Novelty and Non-Obviousness Statement:
Whereas the cited references disclose partial workflows involving intent classification, logic switching, or feedback aggregation, the present invention instead provides an integrated method comprising real-time session data capture, adaptive intent modeling, delta-based reasoning, ambient-aware logic fusion, conditional interruption, action execution, and immediate feedback-based rule optimization. This holistic pipeline enables continuous improvement within the same engagement context and is not taught, suggested, or rendered obvious by any single reference or combination thereof. Accordingly, the claimed method constitutes a novel and non-obvious advancement in transactional AI reasoning under 35 U.S.C. § § 102 and 103.


US12118570B2：

Description
RELATED APPLICATIONS
This is a NONPROVISIONAL of, claims priority to, and incorporates by reference U.S. Provisional Application No. 62/705,614, filed Jul. 7, 2020.
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
The present invention relates to systems and methods for automatically interviewing and evaluating prospective clients for engagement in connection with causes of action revealed through the interview process.
BACKGROUND
Automated conversational interfaces are a growing trend in many forms of business and consumer interaction. For example, many retail establishments and consumer service enterprises employ such interfaces as components of a web site or other online portal for interaction with potential and/or existing customers. Often, these interfaces are referred to as chatbots or virtual agents. The chatbots/virtual agents are generally configured to engage consumers in simulated conversations for purposes of information delivery or problem resolution.
A well-constructed chatbot/virtual agent often appears to engage human users in seemingly intelligent discussions. Of course, the chatbot/virtual agent is really just the user-exposed portion—the user interface—of a larger computer system. These computer systems typically employ problem-solving techniques in order to engage the human user(s) via the chatbot/virtual agent interface to solicit information and provide responses.
Broadly speaking, two forms of problem-solving techniques are employed by computer systems backing chatbot/virtual agent interfaces. The first is a rule-based approach in which scripted actions are performed whenever specified conditional tests for the associated action(s) are satisfied. Stated differently, rule-based approaches examine inputs against explicit criteria and, when the criteria are satisfied, execute associated, pre-defined actions. The criteria (the “rules”) may be examined in a prescribed order or hierarchy (e.g., in order to emulate business protocols or other desired approaches) and execution of a higher-ranked rule may preclude (or demand) execution of lower-ranked rules. Alternatively, rules may be evaluated in parallel with one another and actions associated with one or more rules satisfied by an input may be undertaken. Rule-based systems are typically characterized by if-then-else statements that define the criteria being evaluated and the actions to be taken when the value of a parameter under evaluation satisfies the evaluation criteria.
The second problem-solving technique involves case-based approaches, in which chatbot outputs for current inputs are developed through analogies to earlier solutions for related, but somewhat different, situations. This approach can be analogized to the common law notion of precedent, which uses outcomes or holdings of prior judicial decisions as a basis for justifying those of later ones by reason of similarities or equivalencies in facts, circumstances, or other conditions. In terms of a computer process, a case-based approach involves retrieving relevant “cases” (e.g., problem-solution or, more broadly, input-output pairs), mapping prior solutions from the retrieved cases to a current problem and adapting those solutions to fit the changed circumstances or conditions of the current problem, and (optionally, but often) retaining the new problem-solution pair as a new “case.” A common implementation of case-based reasoning of this kind is pattern matching, in which components of a new input (e.g., key words in a sentence) are identified and a stored response pattern is adjusted to unique parameters of the new input. One well-known chatbot developed by The Personality Forge, Ltd. Co. incorporates natural language processing along with case-based reasoning to parse and understand natural language input sentences and then provide that information to a case-based reasoning (CBR) engine. The CBR engine responds based on a stored library of previous chat sessions and other information.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
In some embodiments, the present invention provides a system having a virtual agent interface communicatively coupled to predictive case engine for automatically interviewing and evaluating prospective clients for engagement with a law firm. In some instances, the virtual agent interface may interact with the predictive case engine through a chat runtime agent running on a server, which executes the predictive case engine as appropriate. The virtual agent interface is configured as a front end for the predictive case engine to engage prospective clients of the law firm in a conversation to elicit facts concerning potential causes of action. The predictive case engine is configured to evaluate those facts for assessing engagement of the prospective clients by the law firm using scorings assigned according to stored information concerning prior judicial decisions and settlements. The virtual agent interface may be instantiated at a server and accessible by the prospective clients though a web site or other portal associated with the law firm. Alternatively, the virtual agent interface may be a component of a case management platform offered on a subscription basis. In either instance, the virtual agent interface may be configured to accept natural language inputs from the prospective client. For example, the virtual agent interface may include a natural language processor configured to parse input messages and extract key words and/or strings.
The predictive case engine may include a case matching module configured to identify the potential causes of action from the key words and/or strings extracted from the input messages received via the virtual agent interface. Additionally, the predictive case engine may include one or more machine learning modules configured to train the case matching module to identify factual distinctions associated with the potential causes of action that affect outcomes in judicial decisions and settlements and to engage the prospective clients with specific questions when potential causes of action are recognized from the key words and/or strings included in the prospective clients' input messages. For example, at least one of the machine learning modules may comprise a convolutional neural network configured to generate case fact pattern vector representations from prior case information stored in one or more databases accessible by the predictive case engine by pooling results of convolution operations on n-dimension vectors that represent extracted facts from individual cases included in the prior case information. The case matching module may then be configured to engage the prospective clients with specific questions by populating a dialog module of the predictive case engine with interrogatories to be presented to the prospective clients through the virtual agent interface.
An identified likely one of the potential causes of action may be scored by a case scoring module of the predictive case engine by evaluating a description provided by one of the prospective clients through the conversation with the virtual agent system against stored case information in one or more databases accessible by the predictive case engine. The stored case information may include available verdict and settlement information from prior cases.
In further embodiments, the present invention provides a process for automatically interviewing and evaluating prospective clients for engagement by a law firm. That process includes monitoring a virtual agent interface for new conversations, and, when a new conversation is detected, engaging a prospective client in conversation via the virtual agent interface to elicit information useful in determining whether the prospective client is suitable for an engagement. The information obtained from the prospective client is evaluated to determine if a likely cause of action can be identified, and when a likely cause of action is identified based on the information provided by the prospective client, scoring and assessing the identified cause of action against engagement criteria for causes of action of that kind. If the scoring and assessment reveal that the prospective client's likely cause of action is suitable for engagement, an engagement process is initiated, otherwise, the prospective client may be further engaged in conversation via the virtual client interface to obtain additional information that may reveal other potential causes of action and/or additional facts pertaining to the initially identified potential cause of action. As new information is elicited, potential new causes of action are identified, scored, and assessed and previously identified causes of action may be reevaluated using the additional information. The interviewing and assessment continues until one or more potential causes of action score sufficiently high enough to warrant engagement, or the conversation with the prospective client exhausts the available facts without revealing a potential cause of action with a score sufficiently high enough to warrant engagement, in which instance a non-engagement procedure with the prospective client is performed. As indicated above, the cause of action assessment may be performed using information stored in a knowledge database and the cause of action assessment may include evaluating the information obtained from the prospective client against fact patterns and outcomes culled from previously contested cases, both reported and unreported.
There and further embodiments of the invention are described in detail below, with reference to the accompanying drawings.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
The present invention is illustrated by way of example, and not limitation, in the figures of the accompanying drawings, in which,
FIG. 1 illustrates an example of a process by which systems configured in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention automatically interview and evaluate prospective clients for engagement with/by a law firm;
FIG. 2 illustrates aspects of a virtual agent system configured with a predictive case engine in accordance with embodiments of the present invention;
FIG. 3A illustrates further aspects of the virtual agent system shown in FIG. 2 in accordance with embodiments of the present invention;
FIG. 3B shows an alternative embodiment of the virtual agent system which includes a separate cross-sell module; and
FIG. 4 illustrates an example of a processor-based system representative of computing systems such as a client terminal and/or server of the virtual agent system shown in FIGS. 1-3B.
DESCRIPTION
Described herein are systems and methods for automatically interviewing and evaluating prospective clients for engagement in connection with causes of action revealed through the interview process. In one instance, a system configured in accordance with the present invention provides a self-signup facility for prospective clients of a law firm to engage in a conversation with a chatbot/virtual agent interface configured as a front end for a predictive case engine configured to evaluate the prospective clients for engagement with/by the law firm. The chatbot/virtual agent interface and predictive case engine may be instantiated at a server, with the chatbot/virtual agent interface accessible by prospective clients though a web site or other portal associated with the law firm. In some instances, the system may be a component of a larger case management platform and offered on a subscription or other basis as a lead generation tool to one or more law firms.
Referring first to FIG. 1 , an overview of a process 100 by which systems configured in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention automatically interview and evaluate prospective clients for engagement is presented. At step 110, the chatbot/virtual agent interface is monitored for new conversations. When a new conversation is detected 112, the system engages the prospective client in conversation 114 to elicit information useful in determining whether the prospective client is suitable for an engagement. The conversation proceeds, during which time the system evaluates the information obtained from the prospective client to determine if a likely cause of action can be identified 116.
When a likely cause of action is identified based on the information provided by the prospective client, it is scored 118 and assessed 120 against engagement criteria for causes of action of that kind. If the scoring and assessment reveal that the prospective client's likely cause of action is suitable for engagement, the engagement process is initiated 122. Otherwise, the system continues to engage the prospective client in conversation 124 to obtain additional information that may reveal other potential causes of action and/or additional facts pertaining to the initially identified potential cause of action. As this new information is elicited, the system identifies, scores, and assesses the potential new causes of action and also, optionally, reevaluates previously identified causes of action using the new facts through the process described above. The interview process continues until one or more potential causes of action score sufficiently high enough to warrant engagement 122, or the conversation with the prospective client has exhausted the available facts without revealing a potential cause of action with a score sufficiently high enough to warrant engagement. In this latter instance, a disengagement procedure is performed 126.
As will be further described below, the cause of action evaluation assesses data uncovered through a conversation with the prospective client with information stored in a knowledge database. This step involves appraising the data from the prospective client against fact patterns and outcomes culled from a large number of previously contested cases, both reported and unreported. If the data necessary to make a sufficient evaluation is not yet available, then the system engages the prospective client in further conversation to retrieve the data necessary to complete the evaluation. The result of each evaluation is affected by confidence levels in outcomes as revealed by the cases, questions, and prospective client's responses. If the confidence level or score of a certain outcome or outcomes associated with one or more prospective causes of action rises above a predetermined threshold for an associated cause of action (or multiple causes of action), then that cause of action (or the causes of action) is (are) deemed an engageable prospect (step 122). If no prospective causes of action rise above the associated thresholds, then the system directs disengagement with the prospective client.
To engage the prospective client(s) in conversation as part of the above-described process, a chatbot/virtual agent is deployed. The chatbot/virtual agent may be integrated with digital platforms (e.g., websites and/or client evaluation/intake portals) of a law firm or referral agency. As used herein, the terms “chatbot” and “virtual agent” are meant to be interchangeable and hereafter the single term virtual agent will be used in connection therewith.
Referring now to FIG. 2 , a user 204 at a client station 206 accesses the virtual agent system 202 over a network or network of networks 208. In general, client station 206 may be a personal computer or similar device running a web browser or a mobile, processor-based device such as a tablet device, a personal digital assistant, a smart phone, a laptop or notebook computer, etc., running a web browser or other communication application. More generally, user 204 represents a prospective client using client station 206 to visit a web site or other portal over the Internet 208 and engaging in a virtual communication session with the virtual agent system 202 via the virtual agent interface 210.
The virtual agent system 202 includes, in this illustrated embodiment, an application server 212, which is configured, at least in part, as a predictive case engine 214. The predictive case engine 214 is communicatively coupled to the virtual agent interface 210 and to one or more databases 216. Although the databases 216 are shown in this example as being part of the virtual agent system 202, in other instances some or all of the databases 216 may be associated with other systems, for example systems that store records of prior lawsuits, case management records, judicial decisions and orders, etc. In some instances, the virtual agent interface may interact with the predictive case engine through a chat runtime agent running on the server, which executes the predictive case engine as appropriate.
The virtual agent interface 210 provides a conversation (or “chat”) interface 220 at the client terminal 206, e.g., when rendered in a web browser running on the client station 206. In other instances, the conversation interface 220 may be provided through other portals or applications, such as Facebook Messenger™, etc. The conversation interface 220 facilitates a dialog 222 between the prospective client 204 and the virtual agent system 202. The dialog begins when the prospective client 204 uses client station 206 (e.g., a browser running thereon) to navigate to the web site or other portal at which the virtual agent system is instantiated and initiates a chat session with the virtual agent system by responding to a welcome prompt 224 or otherwise providing an input in the form of spoken words or written text through the conversation interface. It should be noted that although only a single prospective client is shown in the illustration, virtual agent system 202 is configured to support multiple concurrent conversations with multiple, independent prospective clients at different client terminals. Further, the virtual agent system may be reachable through multiple different web sites and/or portals, each associated with a different web address.
The illustrated conversation interface 220 in FIG. 2 is intended merely as an example and many variations thereof may be used. In general, the conversation interface provided by the virtual agent system 202 may include one or more graphical images or logos, e.g., associated with the sponsoring law firm or service provider, as well as icons or other graphical elements such as avatars representing the virtual agent system 202, the prospective client, or both. Also, the conversation interface generally includes a field 226 within which the prospective client 204 may type input messages in text form and transmit (or post) the inputs to the virtual agent interface 210 by clicking, pressing, or otherwise engaging an actionable element 228. Alternatively, or in addition, an actionable icon 230 in the form of a microphone may, when selected, activate a voice input instrument (e.g., a microphone) of the client station 206 allowing for voice inputs via the conversation interface 220. Message boxes 230, 232 within the conversation interface 220 represent input messages received from the user 204 through client terminal 206, while message boxes 224, 236 represent responses and other messages provided by the virtual agent system 202 through the virtual agent interface 210. Although shown in serial fashion, with the oldest messages at the top of the conversation interface and the newest messages at the bottom thereof in this illustration, the message boxes may appear in other orders or fashions within the conversation interface 220.
As indicated above, virtual agent system 202 monitors the virtual agent interface 210 for new conversations. For example, when virtual agent system 202 recognizes that a prospective client has navigated to the web site or other portal at which the virtual agent interface 210 is instantiated, a new conversation may be initiated by providing the prompt 224 to the prospective client within the conversation interface 220. If the prospective client responds, a new conversation is recognized, and the virtual agent system engages the prospective client in conversation by means of solicitations such as those in message box 236 to elicit information useful in determining whether the prospective client is suitable for an engagement. In some cases, state bar and/or other regulations may require that chat sessions be initiated only at the direction of a prospective client. Accordingly, the conversation may be initiated by a prospective client signaling an intent to initiate same, for example, by selecting an icon or other screen element to launch a conversation interface or otherwise begin the conversation.
Preferably, the virtual agent system 202 is configured to accept natural language inputs from the prospective client 204. For example, application server 212 or virtual agent interface 210 may include a natural language processor configured to parse input messages such as those in message boxes 224, 236 and extract key words and/or strings (tokens). Fuzzy matching techniques may be employed to identify and/or resolve input strings. For example, in response to an input identifying the occurrence of an accident, the system may be configured to resolve the accident type by posing questions designed to classify the accident as, e.g., a car accident, a slip and fall, etc. This may involve using a recognized string as an index to a dictionary that provides for classification or refinement of the recognized string. Using such a dictionary, recognized strings may trigger follow up questions. For example, an input that is recognized as including the string “broken arm” may trigger questions to uncover whether the break was the result of an accident, e.g., a skiing accident, a product failure, e.g., a ladder collapse, or other event.
The extracted words and/or strings may be used by the predictive case engine 214 to determine potential causes of action associated with the facts being provided by the prospective client. That is, the extracted words and/or strings may be used to interpret the prospective client inputs and classify the prospective client within a relevant taxonomy that allows for further pertinent information to be requested, e.g., by using the extracted key words and/or strings as indices to tables or other data structures that associate causes of action with the key words and/or strings.
By way of example, if during the dialog between the virtual agent system 202 and the prospective client 204 the string “car accident” is identified within an input provided by the prospective client, that string may be recognized by the predictive case engine 214 as being associated with a number of potential causes of action, including negligence. Once so recognized, the predictive case engine 214 may engage the virtual agent interface 210 to begin a question and answer session with the prospective client 204 that seeks to uncover the facts surrounding the car accident that are relevant and useful in scoring the potential negligence cause of action. The questions posed by the predictive case engine may be determined, at least in part, based on information stored in database(s) 216 concerning prior negligence cases in which car accidents were the underlying event. Alternatively, questions posed by the predictive case engine may be relevant to a number of different causes of action and are not necessarily constrained by case type.
FIG. 3A provides a more detailed view of the virtual agent system 202. Virtual agent interface 210 includes natural language processing module 302 configured to parse input messages and extract key words and/or strings as discussed above. Also included in virtual agent interface 210 is a speech-to-text conversion module 304, which allows for utterances made by the prospective client to be converted to text for processing by the natural language processing module 302.
The predictive case engine 214 includes a case matching module 306, one or more machine learning modules 308-1, 308-2, etc., and dialog module 310. In one embodiment of the invention dialog module 310 is updated on a per-chat session basis to provide messages to the prospective client through the virtual agent interface 210 according to the activities of the case matching module 306. The case matching module, in turn, is updated through the machine learning module 308-1 according to experiences with prospective client chat sessions as well as new entries in database(s) 216. As shown in the illustrated example, separate machine learning modules may be used for training/updating the case matching module 306 training/updating a case scoring module 312, and/or training/updating a cross-selling module (described below). However, in some implementations, a single machine learning module may be employed.
For example, a machine learning module 308-1 may be configured to train the case matching module 306 to identify potential causes of action from the key words and strings extracted from messages received via the virtual agent interface 210. Informed by prior case information stored in database(s) 216, the machine learning module 308-1 identifies factual distinctions that affect outcomes in different cases. In one embodiment, this may be done using a convolutional neural network to generate case fact pattern vector representations from the prior case information by pooling results of convolution operations on n-dimension vectors that represent extracted facts from individual cases included in the prior case information. The machine learning module 308 then trains the case matching module to engage a prospective client with specific questions when potential causes of action are recognized from strings included in the prospective clients' inputs.
By way of example, through analysis of prior case information concerning car accidents, the machine learning module may train the predictive case engine to recognize that whether the prospective client was a driver or a passenger in a vehicle can be one important fact. Similarly, whether the prospective client was in a vehicle that was struck from behind or was in the vehicle that struck another may be another important fact. Accordingly, the case matching module may be trained to elicit these facts as part of the dialog with the prospective client when the string “car accident” is recognized in one of the prospective client's inputs. To do so, the case management module 306 populates the dialog module 310 with interrogatories to be presented to the prospective client through the virtual agent interface 210, and those interrogatories are played via the conversation interface 220 as a means of gathering this important information. The interrogatories may be fashioned so as to extract the same information through multiple different questions in order to confirm the prospective client's answers remain consistent.
Throughout the dialog with the prospective client, responses from the virtual agent system 202 are generated based on information extracted from the prospective client's input according to training provided by the machine learning module 308-1. As the conversation proceeds, the system evaluates the information obtained from the prospective client to determine if a likely cause of action can be identified. For example, in response to a prospective client's input indicating there was a car accident, the virtual agent system 202 may respond with a question such as “Were you a driver or a passenger?” This response message may be generated based on the machine learning module having trained the case matching module that different considerations surround potential causes of action according to whether or not prospective client was a driver of or a passenger in a vehicle involved in a car accident.
Eventually, based on the information provided by the prospective client, the case matching module 306 may identify a likely cause of action available to the prospective client. Factual information relayed by prospective clients in messages during the dialog with the virtual agent system 202 represent a vector, and the case matching module 306 predicts potential causes of action by looking for minimum vector distances between the strings extracted from the prospective user inputs and those compiled from libraries of reported (and, optionally, unreported) judicial decisions, orders, and other sources. This is essentially a classification task to find instances of the vectors representing the prospective client inputs within those representing the library of prior cases or at least being within a predefined distance thereof.
Any identified likely cause of action is then scored by a case scoring module 312. To score a potential cause of action, the case scoring module evaluates the description provided by the prospective client through the dialog with the virtual agent system 202 against stored case information in database(s) 216. In particular, available verdict and settlement information from prior cases is used as training data for the case scoring module 312, which in some embodiments may be implemented as a convolutional neural network or a recurrent neural network. The training, using prior case outcomes, creates a model that, in effect, predicts the viability and the value, collectively the score, of the identified cause(s) of action associated with the prospective client. By applying the information gleaned from the dialog with the client as inputs to the model, a score is derived. That score can then be assessed against a threshold for the subject cause(s) of action and the outcome of the assessment used as a basis for engaging the prospective client or not.
For example, if the scoring reveals that the prospective client's likely cause of action is suitable for engagement, the system may proceed to present the client with proposed terms of engagement for the sponsoring law firm. The terms may be discussed and explained through the conversation interface and the client provided a letter of engagement or other contract for signature (e.g., via an e-signature platform) during the session. For example, based on results from the predictive case engine analysis, the prospective client may be advised of potential settlement values, potential litigation timelines, and other factors.
If the scoring reveals that the prospective client's likely cause of action is not suitable for engagement, the system continues to engage the prospective client via the conversation interface to obtain additional information that may reveal other potential causes of action and/or additional facts pertaining to the initially identified potential cause of action. As this new information is elicited, the system identifies and evaluates the potential new causes of action and also optionally reassesses previously identified causes of action using the new facts through the scoring and evaluation process described above. The process continues until the prospective client is successfully engaged with respect to one or more causes of action or the client is advised that no such engagement is possible. In this latter instance, the client may be provided a non-engagement letter appropriate to the circumstances.
In an alternative embodiment, shown in FIG. 3B, the cross-selling functionality is provided in a separate module 322. As used herein, cross-selling functionality refers to the system's continued engagement with a prospective client in a chat session, even if a previously identified cause of action has not scored sufficiently high to warrant engagement with respect to that cause of action. The cross-selling module 322 monitors the conversation with the prospective client and uses the prospective client's answers or other inputs along with case type(s) identified by the case matching module 306 to identify other potential causes of action for which the prospective client may be eligible. This information is then used to instruct the dialog module 310 in a conversation flow. For example, the cross-selling module may instruct the dialog module to elicit facts concerning potential products liability actions or other causes of action that were first reveled through an interview associated with another case type. To allow for training, the cross-selling module 322 may include a dedicated machine learning module 308-3.
In addition to potential causes of action, the predictive case engine may be used to evaluate (and score) litigation factors such as venue. For example, the predictive case engine may be provided with information concerning judgments, settlements, time to trial, dispositive motion outcomes, etc. Using this information, where available, the predictive case engine may provide to the prospective client (and/or attorneys to which the client may be referred) ranked venue options for a litigation.
The above description makes use of block diagrams and flowchart illustrations of methods and systems embodying the present invention. These illustrated blocks and processes may be implemented by one or more programmed computer systems in which machine-executed instructions cause a device to implement the functions specified in the flowchart block or blocks. Other means for implementing the functions including various combinations of hardware, firmware and software as described herein may also be employed. For example, the term “module” as used herein refers to a functional unit composed of hardware (e.g., a processor-based system such as that described with reference to FIG. 4 , below, or similar unit) and software (e.g., instructions executed by such a processor) that performs the identified functions. Such modules are typically self-contained units of the larger systems in which they are embodied, however, the processor components thereof may be shared among multiple modules. Alternatively, the functions ascribed to modules herein may be implemented as services that are called as required. The services may be implemented on one or more servers at one or ore locations.
FIG. 4 provides an example of a system 1000 that may be representative of any of the computing systems (e.g., client terminal 206, server 212, etc.) discussed herein. Examples of system 1000 may include a smartphone, a desktop, laptop, notebook, or other computer, etc. Note, not all of the various computer systems have all of the features of system 1000. For example, certain ones of the computer systems discussed above may not include a display inasmuch as the display function may be provided by a client computer communicatively coupled to the computer system or a display function may be unnecessary. Such details are not critical to the present invention.
System 1000 includes a bus 1002 or other communication mechanism for communicating information, and a processor 1004 coupled with the bus 1002 for processing information. Computer system 1000 also includes a main memory 1006, such as a random access memory (RAM) or other dynamic storage device, coupled to the bus 1002 for storing information and instructions to be executed by processor 1004. Main memory 1006 also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by processor 1004. Computer system 1000 further includes a read only memory (ROM) 1008 or other static storage device coupled to the bus 1002 for storing static information and instructions for the processor 1004. A storage device 1010, for example a hard disk, flash memory-based storage medium, or other storage medium from which processor 1004 can read, is provided and coupled to the bus 1002 for storing information and instructions (e.g., operating systems, applications programs and the like).
Computer system 1000 may be coupled via the bus 1002 to a display 1012, such as a flat panel display, for displaying information to a computer user. An input device 1014, such as a keyboard including alphanumeric and other keys, may be coupled to the bus 1002 for communicating information and command selections to the processor 1004. Another type of user input device is cursor control device 1016, such as a mouse, a trackpad, or similar input device for communicating direction information and command selections to processor 1004 and for controlling cursor movement on the display 1012. Other user interface devices, such as microphones, speakers, etc. are not shown in detail but may be involved with the receipt of user input and/or presentation of output.
The processes referred to herein may be implemented by processor 1004 executing appropriate sequences of computer-readable instructions contained in main memory 1006. Such instructions may be read into main memory 1006 from another computer-readable medium, such as storage device 1010, and execution of the sequences of instructions contained in the main memory 1006 causes the processor 1004 to perform the associated actions. In alternative embodiments, hard-wired circuitry or firmware-controlled processing units may be used in place of or in combination with processor 1004 and its associated computer software instructions to implement the invention. The computer-readable instructions may be rendered in any computer language.
Computer system 1000 also includes a communication interface 1018 coupled to the bus 1002. Communication interface 1018 may provide a two-way data communication channel with a computer network, which provides connectivity to and among the various computer systems discussed above. For example, communication interface 1018 may be a local area network (LAN) card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN, which itself is communicatively coupled to the Internet through one or more Internet service provider networks. The precise details of such communication paths are not critical to the present invention. What is important is that computer system 1000 can send and receive messages and data through the communication interface 1018 and in that way communicate with hosts accessible via the Internet. It is noted that the components of system 1000 may be located in a single device or located in a plurality of physically and/or geographically distributed devices.
Claims (3)
Hide Dependent 
What is claimed is:
1. A system for automatically interviewing and evaluating prospective clients for engagement with a law firm, the system comprising:
a virtual agent interface coupled via a network interface to be accessible to prospective clients of a law firm, wherein the virtual agent interface includes a natural language processor configured to parse input messages received from the prospective clients via natural language inputs and to extract key words and/or strings from said natural language inputs; and
a server running a predictive case engine, said predictive case engine communicatively coupled to the virtual agent interface to receive the key words and/or strings extracted from the input messages by the virtual agent interface, and to present interrogatories to the prospective clients via the virtual agent interface, the virtual agent interface thus configured as a front end for the predictive case engine to engage the prospective clients of the law firm in a conversation to elicit facts concerning potential causes of action, wherein the predictive case engine comprises:
a case matching module configured to:
identify potential causes of action from the key words and/or strings extracted by the virtual agent interface by using said key words and/or strings as indices to data structures that associate causes of action with the key words and/or strings, and
upon identifying a specific potential cause of action, engage the prospective clients in a virtual conversation via the virtual agent interface to elicit facts concerning the specific potential cause of action; and
one or more machine learning modules configured to:
identify factual distinctions associated with the potential causes of action that affect outcomes in judicial decisions and settlements by accessing one or more databases storing prior case information, and generate, using a convolutional neural network, case fact pattern vector representations from the prior case information by pooling results of convolution operations on n-dimension vectors that represent extracted facts from individual cases included in the prior case information, and
use identified factual distinctions to train the case matching module to engage the prospective clients with specific questions when the potential causes of action are recognized from the key words and/or strings extracted from the input messages,
a case scoring module to score the potential causes of action by evaluating descriptions provided by the prospective clients through the virtual conversation against stored case information in the one or more databases, each respective evaluation producing an outcome with an associated confidence level and those outcomes rising above a predetermined threshold being deemed to be an engageable prospect,
said predictive case engine thus configured to evaluate said facts for assessing engagement of the prospective clients by the law firm using scorings assigned according to stored information concerning prior judicial decisions and settlements.
2. The system according to claim 1, wherein the case matching module is configured to engage the prospective clients with the specific questions by populating a dialog module of the predictive case engine with the interrogatories to be presented to the prospective clients through the virtual agent interface.
3. The system according to claim 1, wherein the stored case information comprises available verdict and settlement information from prior cases.

US20260093917A1：

Description
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
[0001]
This application claims priority to Japanese Patent Application No. 2024-168981, filed on Sep. 27, 2024, the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0002]
The present disclosure relates to an information processing system and a non-transitory computer-readable medium. More particularly, the present disclosure relates to an information processing system and a non-transitory computer-readable medium for simulating human behavior.
BACKGROUND
[0003]
Techniques for predicting human behavior based on history information are known. For example, Patent Literature (PTL) 1 discloses a behavior prediction apparatus that predicts human behavior using a prediction model that is trained on the basis of behavior history information for a human.
CITATION LIST
Patent Literature
[0004]
PTL 1: JP 7476984 B2
SUMMARY
[0005]
Simulation or prediction of human behavior may be utilized in various applications, such as urban planning, crowd simulation, recommendation systems, sales prediction, and personalized marketing campaigns. Thus, techniques which provide improved simulation of human behavior in terms of accuracy and/or computational efficiency are desirable.
[0006]
An information processing system according to the present disclosure includes: a processor system; and a memory system; wherein the memory system stores instructions which, when executed by the processor system, cause the information processing system to instantiate an agent comprising: an agent memory for storing historical data associated with the agent; a first large language model conditioned on persona data characterizing a persona of the agent; a second large language model; and a control module configured to: cause the first large language model to generate one or more actions based on the historical data, cause the second large language model to output a rating for the one or more actions generated by the first large language model, and cause the first large language model to update the one or more actions based on the rating output by the second large language model.
[0007]
A non-transitory computer-readable medium according to the present disclosure stores instructions which, when executed by an information processing system, cause the information processing system to instantiate an agent comprising: an agent memory for storing historical data associated with the agent; a first large language model conditioned on persona data characterizing a persona of the agent; a second large language model; and a control module configured to: cause the first large language model to generate one or more actions based on the historical data, cause the second large language model to output a rating for the one or more actions generated by the first large language model, and cause the first large language model to update the one or more actions based on the rating output by the second large language model.
[0008]
The information processing system and the non-transitory computer-readable medium of the present disclosure provides simulation of human behavior with improved accuracy.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0009]
In the accompanying drawings:
[0010]
FIG. 1 is a schematic diagram illustrating an example configuration of an information processing system;
[0011]
FIG. 2 is a schematic diagram illustrating an example an agent; and
[0012]
FIG. 3 is a flow diagram illustrating an example of a process for simulating human behavior.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0013]
FIG. 1 is a schematic diagram illustrating an example configuration of an information processing system 10 according to an embodiment. The information processing system 10 includes a processor system 12 and a memory system 14. The processor system 12 includes one or more processors and the memory system 14 includes one or more memory units. The information processing system 10 illustrated in FIG. 1 has been simplified for ease of understanding, but it will be understood that it may include various other components, such as one or more network interfaces, one or more communication interfaces, one or more input interfaces, and/or the like.
[0014]
The processing system 12 may include one or more processors, one or more dedicated circuits, or a combination thereof. The one or more processors may include a general-purpose processor, such as a central processing unit (CPU), a dedicated processor optimized for a particular purpose, such as graphics processing unit (GPU), or any combination thereof. Examples of a dedicated circuit are a field-programmable gate array (FPGA) and an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC). The processing system 12 executes information processing to control operations performed by the information processing system 10.
[0015]
The memory system 14 includes, for example, one or more semiconductor memories, one or more magnetic memories, one or more optical memories, or any combination thereof. The memory system 14 may function as main memory, auxiliary memory, cache memory, or any combination thereof. Examples of suitable semiconductor memory include Random Access Memory (RAM) and Read Only Memory (ROM). Examples of RAM include Static RAM (SRAM) or Dynamic RAM (DRAM). Examples of ROM include Electrically Erasable Programmable ROM (EEPROM). The memory system 14 stores instructions and information for use in operations performed by the information processing apparatus 10.
[0016]
The memory system 14 stores instructions 16 which, when executed by the processor system 12, implement one or more functions of the information processing system 10. The instructions 16 may be supplied to the information processing system 10 in a separate non-transitory computer-readable medium, such as an optical disk or a solid-state drive (SSD). Alternatively, the instructions 16 may be received over a network (not shown), such as the Internet, a mobile communication network, an ad-hoc network, a local area network (LAN), a metropolitan area network (MAN), or any combination thereof.
[0017]
The information processing system 10 is configured to simulate or predict human behavior using artificial intelligence. More specifically, the information processing system 10 is configured to instantiate a software agent (hereinafter referred to simply as an “agent”) which simulates one or more human activities on the basis of persona data that characterizes a desired persona for the agent. In addition, the information processing system 10 may be configured to simulate or predict human behavior on the basis of an agent memory that stores historical data that characterizes one or more actions performed by the agent in the past. These aspects will be described in more detail below with reference to FIG. 2 and FIG. 3 .
[0018]
FIG. 2 is a schematic diagram illustrating an agent 100 instantiated by the information processing system 10 of FIG. 1 . For ease of explanation, FIG. 2 illustrates the agent 100 in functional terms, with each block representing a discrete unit of functionality implemented in software by the agent 100. However, it will be appreciated that, at an implementation level, the functionality shown in FIG. 2 may be combined and/or divided without departing from the principles of the present disclosure discussed below in more detail.
[0019]
The agent 100 includes a control module 102, an agent memory 104, a first large language model (LLM) 106, a second LLM 108, persona data 110, one or more low-level controllers 112 and a descriptor module 114.
[0020]
The agent 100 is able to interact with a simulated environment 200. The simulated environment 200 may be implemented by the information processing system 10 or a separate system external to the information processing system 10. The simulated environment 200 is a virtual environment with which the agent 100 is able to interact to perform various actions or tasks. For example, the simulated environment 200 may be a simulation of a town or city, in which the agent 100 resides. In some embodiments, multiple agents may interact with the simulated environment 200, thereby enabling the multiple agents to interact with each other. Interaction with the simulated environment 200 may be realized via an Application Programming Interface (API) provided by the simulated environment 200.
[0021]
The control module 102 is configured to provide overall control of the agent 100. Specifically, the control module 102 is configured to control or orchestrate operations performed by the first LLM 106, the second LLM 108, the one or more low-level controllers 112, and the descriptor module 114, to generate the one or more actions. The control module 102 may perform this control by instructing each of the first LLM 106, the second LLM 108, the one or more low-level controllers 112, and the descriptor module 114 according to a control procedure, whereby the controller instructs each component of the agent 100 to perform specific tasks. Such instructions be provided according to a specific syntax, an API, and/or may be provided in natural language form. For example, the control module 102 may control the first LLM 106 and the second LLM 108 by issuing one or more natural language prompts.
[0022]
The persona data 110 specifies or characterizes a human to be simulated by the agent 100. That is, the persona data 110 encapsulates the human characteristics of the agent 100 and enables the agent 110 to simulate human behavior in a realistic manner. The persona data 110 may include one or more parameters characterizing the persona of the agent 100, and/or one or more natural language descriptions of the persona of the agent 100. For example, the persona data 110 may include one or more parameters characterizing personality, physical attributes, interests, and/or the background of the human to be simulated by the agent 100. Here, personality may be specified in terms of one or more parameters or scores corresponding to one or more personality attributes. Alternatively, or additionally, personality may be specified in terms of a natural language description.
[0023]
The persona data 110 may be generated on the basis of historical data obtained from a human population. For example, such historical data may be obtained via a system that monitors the activities of the human population. In another example, the historical data may be obtained from historical data generated by the agent 100 itself. Based on this historical data, a summary of personality attributes is generated in natural language form. Using this summary, a LLM is used to generate a candidate persona that is consistent with the historical data. For example, the LLM may be instructed to generate a plurality of candidate personas and provide a score indicating consistency with the historical data for each of the candidate personas. In some cases, diversity in the candidate personas may be enhanced by providing the LLM with a set of possible characteristics to select from, such as a set of different occupations. Once a suitable persona has been selected, the selected persona is stored in the persona data 110.
[0024]
The agent memory 104 stores historical data for the agent 100. The historical data provides a record of the past actions and experiences of the agent 100. The agent memory 104 may be filled in real-time as the agent 100 interacts with the simulated environment 200. Alternatively, or additionally, the agent memory 104 may be initialized on the basis of historical data generated by the agent 100 in a pervious simulation. The agent memory 104 serves as a long-term record of the actions, observations, feelings, and thoughts of the agent 100, and thus characterizes the internal state of the agent 100.
[0025]
The first LLM 106 functions as a high-level planner LLM and is configured to generate a daily plan including one or more actions to be performed by the agent 100. Specifically, the first LLM 106 is conditioned on the persona data 110 to generate a daily plan that is consistent with the persona associated with the agent 100. The first LLM 106 may refer to the agent memory 104 to ensure that the daily plan is consistent with the history of the agent 100. Typically, the first LLM 106 may generate the daily plan on a daily basis (i.e., once a day). The daily plan may specify one or more actions to be performed according to one-hour time slots, together with locations where each action is to be performed, and any sub-tasks associated with each action.
[0026]
The first LLM 106 outputs the daily plan to the second LLM 108. The second LLM 108 functions as a critic LLM and is configured to critique the daily plan generated by the first LLM 106. More specifically, the second LLM 108 is configured to determine whether the daily plan generated by the first LLM 106 is realistic and is consistent with the persona defined by the persona data 110 and/or the historical data stored in the agent memory 104. The second LLM 108 may also determine whether the daily plan is consistent with one or more external contexts, such as the simulated environment 200, cultural norms and/or human customs. The second LLM 108 outputs a rating for the daily plan to the first LLM 106. The rating may include a score for the daily plan, and/or feedback regarding the daily plan in natural language form.
[0027]
Upon receipt of the feedback, the first LLM 106 may update or change the daily plan, as necessary. Thus, by refining the daily plan based on the feedback from the second LLM 108, the first LLM 106 is able to generate a realistic daily plan that is conditioned on the persona data 110 and is consistent with the internal state of the agent 100 characterized by historical data stored in the agent memory 104. In this manner, the agent 100 is able to generate realist human behavior.
[0028]
The first LLM 106 and the second LLM 106 may be implemented using a pre-trained LLM, such the Generative Pre-trained Transformer 4 (GPT-4) and the like created by OpenAI of San Francisco, California. In other embodiments, the first LLM 106 and the second LLM 106 may be implemented by fine-tuning a pre-trained LLM or by training a LLM specifically for use as the first LLM 106 and/or the second LLM.
[0029]
After the daily plan has been generated, critiqued and, if necessary, updated, it is executed in the simulated environment 200. Execution of the daily plan may be delegated to the one or more low-level controllers 112. The one or more low-level controllers 112 are configured to implement one or more low-level tasks necessary to enact the daily plan. For example, the one or more low-level controllers 112 may include a controller that is specialized in predicting the optimal way to travel between two locations in the simulated environment 200. The one or more low-level controllers 112 may include one or more LLMs trained to perform specific low-level tasks, and/or one or more models based on behavioral trees, reinforced learning (RL), neural networks, and/or the like. Typically, the one or more low-level controllers 112 do not account for the persona of the agent 100 and perform low-level tasks based on defined policies. Thus, by delegating the low-level tasks necessary to enact the daily plan to the one or more low-level controllers 112, the agent 100 is able to simulate human behavior with improved computational efficiency.
[0030]
Execution of the daily plan in the simulated environment 200 may include several steps. First, the agent 100 may make one or more observations of the simulated environment 200. These observations may be made by the one or more low-level controllers 112 which control the interaction between the agent 100 and the simulated environment 200. In some embodiments, these observations may be visual observations that are translated into natural language by the descriptor module 114. In such embodiments, the descriptor module 114 may be realized by a vision language model (VLM) that is configured to caption the visual observations made by the one or more low-level controllers 112, and provide the caption to the first LLM 106 and/or the second LLM 108 in the form of natural language text.
[0031]
Upon receipt of the observations from the low-level controllers 112 and/or the descriptor module 114, the first LLM 106 determines whether the one or more actions forming the daily plan need to be changed. For example, based on the observations, the first LLM 106 may estimate a current mood of the agent 100, a physical status of the agent 100 (e.g., hunger, fatigue) and determine whether the daily plan requires revision. For example, if the first LLM 106 determines that the agent 100 is hungry and daily plan does not involve eating for several hours, the first LLM 106 may decide to go to a restaurant in the simulated environment 200, and revise the daily plan accordingly. In a further example, the first LLM 106 may determine that the daily plan requires revision if the one or more observations indicate that it is raining at the current location of the agent 100 in the simulated environment 200, and the daily plan involves one or more outdoor activities.
[0032]
The one or more observations of the simulated environment 200 may also be used to update the historical data stored in the agent memory 104 to ensure that the historical data accurately reflects the experiences of the agent 100 in the simulated environment 200. In this manner, the experiences of the agent 100 in the simulated environment 200 can be reflected in future generation of a daily plan by the first LLM 106, thereby enabling more accurate simulation of human behavior.
[0033]
In some embodiments, the agent 100 may provide an interface (not shown), such as an API, which allows interrogation of the first LLM 106 via one or more natural language prompts. For example, a human operator may use the interface to ask agent 100 why it performed or is performing a certain action in the simulated environment 200. In this manner, the human operator is able to gain insight into the persona of the agent 100. Such insight may be valuable for urban planning in respect of the town or city being simulated by the simulated environment 200.
[0034]
FIG. 3 is a flow diagram illustrating a method 300 for simulating one or more human activities according to an embodiment. For clarity, the following description assumes that the method 300 is performed by the control module 102. However, it will be understood that the method 300 may be performed by any component of the agent 100, or any combination of components of the agent 100. Here, the method 300 is an example of the control procedure explained above with reference to FIG. 2 .
[0035]
First, in step 302, the control module 102 causes the first LLM 106 to generate one or more actions based on the historical data stored in the agent memory 104. As discussed above, the one or more actions may constitute a daily plan. Here, the first LLM 106 is conditioned on the basis of the persona data 110, so the one or more actions reflect the persona and past experiences of the agent 100.
[0036]
Next, in step 304, the control module 102 causes the second LLM 108 to output a rating for the one or more actions generated by the first LLM 106. As discussed above, the rating may include a score for the one or more actions, and/or feedback regarding the one or more actions in natural language form. This rating indicates whether the one or more activities are realistic and are consistent with the persona defined by the persona data 110 and/or the historical data stored in the agent memory 104.
[0037]
Next, in step 306, the control module 102 causes the first LLM 106 to update the one or more actions based on the rating output by the second LLM 108. This ensures that the one or more activities are realistic for the persona defined by the persona data 110 and are consistent with the internal state of the agent 100 characterized by the historical data stored in the agent memory 104.
[0038]
Next, in step 308, the control module 102 causes the one or more actions to be performed in the simulated environment 200. As discussed above, performance of the daily activities may be realized by the one or more low-level controllers 112.
[0039]
Next, in step 310, the control module 102 causes the first LLM 106 to update the one or more action based on one or more observations of the simulated environment 200. As discussed above, these observations may be made by the one or more low-level controllers 112 which control the interaction between the agent 100 and the simulated environment 200. In this manner, the experiences of the agent 100 in the simulated environment 200 can be utilized to refine the one or more actions generated by the first LLM 106.
[0040]
In the embodiments described above, the one or more actions generated by the agent 100 constitute a daily plan representing various activities to be performed in the simulated environment 200. However, it will be appreciated that the one or more actions are not limited to this context, and the information processing system 10 may be used to generate activities for use in different contexts. For example, the information processing system 10 may be configured to generate one or more actions that the agent 100 is to take in relation to an automated recommendation system to assess the quality of the recommendations produced by the recommendation system.
[0041]
While embodiments of the present disclosure have been described with reference to the drawings and examples, it should be noted that various modifications and revisions may be implemented by those skilled in the art based on this description. Accordingly, such modifications and revisions are included within the scope of the present disclosure.
Claims (5)
Hide Dependent 
1. An information processing system comprising:
a processor system; and
a memory system;
wherein the memory system stores instructions which, when executed by the processor system, cause the information processing system to instantiate an agent comprising:
an agent memory for storing historical data associated with the agent;
a first large language model conditioned on persona data characterizing a persona of the agent;
a second large language model; and
a control module configured to:
cause the first large language model to generate one or more actions based on the historical data,
cause the second large language model to output a rating for the one or more actions generated by the first large language model, and
cause the first large language model to update the one or more actions based on the rating output by the second large language model.
2. The information processing system according to claim 1, wherein the control module is configured to:
cause the one or more actions to be performed in a simulated environment, and
cause the first large language model to update the historical data based on one or more observations taken from the simulated environment.
3. The information processing system according to claim 1, wherein:
the agent comprises a descriptor module configured to convert the one or more observations taken from the simulated environment into a natural language description of the one or more observations, and
the control module is configured to cause the first large language model to update the one or more actions based on the natural language description of the one or more observations.
4. The information processing system according to claim 2, wherein the agent comprises:
one or more low-level controllers configured to perform the one or more actions in the simulated environment.
5. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions which, when executed by an information processing system, cause the information processing system to instantiate an agent comprising:
an agent memory for storing historical data associated with the agent;
a first large language model conditioned on persona data characterizing a persona of the agent;
a second large language model; and
a control module configured to:
cause the first large language model to generate one or more actions based on the historical data,
cause the second large language model to output a rating for the one or more actions generated by the first large language model, and
cause the first large language model to update the one or more actions based on the rating output by the second large language model.
