US20210362331A1：

Description
BACKGROUND
[0001]
This specification relates to robotics, and more particularly to planning robotic movements.
[0002]
Robotics control refers to controlling the physical movements of robots in order to perform tasks. For example, an industrial robot that builds cars can be programmed to first pick up a car part and then weld the car part onto the frame of the car. Each of these actions can themselves include dozens or hundreds of individual movements by robot motors and actuators.
[0003]
Robotics planning has traditionally required immense amounts of manual programming in order to meticulously dictate how the robotic components should move in order to accomplish a particular task. Manual programming is tedious, time-consuming, and error prone. In addition, a schedule that is manually generated for one workcell can generally not be used for other workcells. In this specification, a workcell is the physical environment in which a robot will operate. Workcells have particular physical properties, e.g., physical dimensions, that impose constraints on how robots can move within the workcell. Thus, a manually programmed schedule for one workcell may be incompatible with a workcell having different robots, a different number of robots, or different physical dimensions.
[0004]
Some research has been conducted toward using machine learning control algorithms, e.g., reinforcement learning, to control robots to perform particular tasks. However, robots have a number of drawbacks that make traditional learning approaches generally unsatisfactory.
[0005]
First, robots naturally have a very complex, high-dimensional, and continuous action space. Thus, it is computationally expensive to generate and evaluate all possible candidate actions. Secondly, robotic control is an environment with extremely sparse rewards because most possible actions do not result in completing a particular task. A technique known as reward shaping has been employed to mitigate the sparse reward problem, but it is generally not scalable for hand-designed reward functions.
[0006]
An additional complication is that traditional techniques for using robotic learning for robotic control are extremely brittle. This means that even if a workable model is successfully trained, even very tiny changes to the task, the robot, or the environment can cause the entire model to become completely unusable.
[0007]
All of these problems mean that traditional ways of using techniques such as reinforcement learning for robotic control result in a computationally expensive process that is difficult to get working at all, which doesn't scale well, and which doesn't generalize to other situations.
SUMMARY
[0008]
This specification describes technologies relating to demonstration-based robotic learning. In particular, the specification describes how a robot can execute a skill template having one or more subtasks that have customized control policies learned using demonstration data.
[0009]
In this specification, a task refers to a capability of a particular robot that involves performing one or more subtasks. For example, a connector insertion task is a capability that enables a robot to insert a wire connector into a socket. This task typically includes two subtasks: 1) move a tool of a robot to a location of the socket, and 2) insert the connector into the socket at the particular location.
[0010]
In this specification, a subtask is an operation to be performed by a robot using a tool. For brevity, when a robot has only one tool, a subtask can be described as an operation to be performed by the robot as a whole. Example subtasks include welding, glue dispensing, part positioning, and surface sanding, to name just a few examples. Subtasks are generally associated with a type that indicates the tool required to perform the subtask, as well as a location within a coordinate system of a workcell at which the subtask will be performed.
[0011]
In this specification, a skill template, or for brevity, a template, is a collection of data and software that allows a robot to be tuned to perform a particular task. The skill template data represents one or more subtasks required to perform the task as well as information describing which subtasks of the skill require local demonstration learning and which perceptual streams will be needed to determine success or failure. Thus, a skill template can define demonstration subtasks that require local demonstration learning, non-demonstration subtasks that do not require local demonstration learning, or both.
[0012]
These technologies are particularly advantageous for robot tasks that are traditionally difficult to control using machine learning, e.g., reinforcement learning. These tasks include those involving physical contact with objects in a work space, for example, sanding, connection and insertion tasks, and wire routing, to name just a few examples.
[0013]
Particular embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented so as to realize one or more of the following advantages. Learning using demonstration data as described in this specification solves the sparse reward and inability to generalize problems of traditional reinforcement learning methods.
[0014]
The system can use visual, proprioceptive (joint) data, haptic data, and any other features to perform tasks, which allows the system to adapt rapidly to particular robot models with high precision. The emphasis is on “sensor-rich robot manipulation”, in contrast to the classical view of minimal sensing in robotics. This in general means that cheaper robots can be used to do the same tasks with less setup time.
[0015]
The techniques described below allow machine learning techniques to be rapidly adapted to any appropriate robot having the appropriately installed hardware abstractions. In a typical scenario, a single non-expert person can train a robot to execute a skill template in less than one day of setup time. This is a vast improvement over traditional methods, which can require teams of experts to work on the problem for weeks designing a reward function and requires weeks of training time on very large data-centers. This effectively allows machine-learned robotic control to be distributed widely to many types of robots and even robots that the system has never seen before.
[0016]
These techniques can effectively implement robotic learning as a service, which results in greater access to the technology. This in turn makes the entire robotic industry safer and more efficient overall.
[0017]
The combination of reinforcement learning, perceptual data processing with machine learning, and advanced impedance/admittance control will enable robotic skill that, despite the task complexity, will perform at very high rates of success, as required in industrial applications.
[0018]
The details of one or more embodiments of the subject matter of this specification are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features, aspects, and advantages of the subject matter will become apparent from the description, the drawings, and the claims.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0019]
FIG. 1 is a diagram of an example demonstration learning system.
[0020]
FIG. 2A is a diagram of an example system for executing a subtask using a customized control policy based on local demonstration data.
[0021]
FIG. 2B is a diagram of another example system for executing a subtask using local demonstration data.
[0022]
FIG. 2C is a diagram of another example system for executing a subtask using residual reinforcement learning.
[0023]
FIG. 3A is a flow chart of an example process for combining sensor data from multiple different sensor streams.
[0024]
FIG. 3B is a diagram of a camera wristband.
[0025]
FIG. 3C is another example view of a camera wristband.
[0026]
FIG. 3D is another example view of a camera wristband.
[0027]
FIG. 4 illustrates an example skill template.
[0028]
FIG. 5 is a flowchart of an example process for configuring a robot to perform a skill using a skill template.
[0029]
FIG. 6A is a flowchart of an example process for using a skill template for a task that uses force as a guide.
[0030]
FIG. 6B is a flowchart of an example process for training a skill template using a cloud-based training system
[0031]
Like reference numbers and designations in the various drawings indicate like elements.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0032]
FIG. 1 is a diagram of an example demonstration learning system. The system 100 is an example of a system that can implement the demonstration-based learning techniques described in this specification.
[0033]
The system 100 includes a number of functional components, including an online execution system 110, a training system 120, and a robot interface subsystem 160. Each of these components can be implemented as computer programs installed on one or more computers in one or more locations that are coupled to each other through any appropriate communications network, e.g., an intranet or the Internet, or combination of networks.
[0034]
The system 100 operates to control the robots 170 a-n in two basic modes: a demonstration mode and an execution mode.
[0035]
In demonstration mode, a user can control one or more robots 170 a-n to perform a particular task or subtask. While doing so, the online execution system 110 collects status messages 135 and online observations 145 to generate local demonstration data. A demonstration data collector 150 is a module that can generate local demonstration data 115 from the status messages 135 and online observations 145, which the online execution system 110 can then provide to the training system 120. The training system can then generate a customized control policy 125 that is specific to the particular characteristics of both the task and the robot performing the task.
[0036]
In this specification, a control policy is a module or a subsystem that generates one or more next actions for a robot to perform for a given observational input. The output of a control policy can affect movements to one or more robotic components, e.g., motors or actuators, either as commands directly output by the policy, or as higher-level commands that are each consumed by multiple robot components through the mechanisms of the robot control stack. A control policy can thus include one or more machine learning models that translate an environmental observation into one or more actions.
[0037]
In this specification, local demonstration data is data gathered while a user is controlling a robot to demonstrate how the robot can perform a particular task by causing the robot to perform physical movements. Local demonstration data can include kinematics data, e.g., joint positions, orientations, and angles. Local demonstration data can also include sensor data, e.g., data gathered from one or more sensors. The sensors can include force sensors; visual sensors, e.g., camera, depth cameras, and lidar; electrical connection sensors; acceleration sensors; audio sensors; gyros; contact sensors; radar sensors; and proximity sensors, e.g., infrared proximity sensors, capacitive proximity sensors, or inductive proximity sensors, to name just a few examples.
[0038]
Typically the local demonstration data is obtained from one or more robots that are in close proximity to the user controlling the robot in demonstration mode. However, close physical proximity between a user and a robot is not a requirement to obtain local demonstration data. For example, a user can obtain local demonstration data remotely from a particular robot through a remote user interface.
[0039]
The training system 120 is a computer system that can use machine learning techniques to generate a customized control policy 125 from the local demonstration data 115. The training system 120 typically has vastly more computing resources than the online execution system 110. For example, the training system 120 can be a cloud-based computing system having hundreds or thousands of computing nodes.
[0040]
To generate the customized control policy 125, the training system 120 can first obtain or pregenerate a base control policy for the task. The base control policy is a control policy that is expected to work well enough for a particular task to cause any sufficiently similar robot to be relatively close to being able to perform the task. For the vast majority of tasks, the base control policy alone is not expected to be sufficiently precise to achieve the task with sufficiently reliable success. For example, connection and insertion tasks typically require sub-millimeter precision, which is precision that cannot be obtained without the specifics provided by local demonstration data for a particular robot.
[0041]
The base control policy for a particular task can be generated in a variety of ways. For example, the base control policy can be manually programmed, trained using traditional reinforcement learning techniques, or using the demonstration-based learning techniques described in this specification. All of these techniques can be suitable for pregenerating a base control policy before receiving local demonstration data for a task because time is less of a consideration when generating the base control policy.
[0042]
In some implementations, the training system generates the base control policy from generalized training data 165. While the local demonstration data 115 collected by the online execution system 110 is typically specific to one particular robot or one particular robot model, the generalized training data 165 can in contrast be generated from one or more other robots, which need not be the same model, located at the same site, or built by the same manufacturer. For example, the generalized training data 165 can be generated offsite from tens or hundreds or thousands of different robots having different characteristics and being different models. In addition, the generalized training data 165 does not even need to be generated from physical robots. For example, the generalized training data can include data generated from simulations of physical robots.
[0043]
Thus, the local demonstration data 115 is local in the sense that it is specific to a particular robot that a user can access and manipulate. The local demonstration data 115 thus represents data that is specific to a particular robot, but can also represent local variables, e.g., specific characteristics of the particular task as well as specific characteristics of the particular working environment.
[0044]
The base control policy can also be defined using system demonstration data that is collected during the process of developing the skill template. For example, a team of engineers associated with the entity that generates skill templates can perform demonstrations using one or more robots at a facility that is remote from and/or unassociated with the system 100. The robots used to generate the system demonstration data also need not be the same robots or the same robot models as the robots 170 a-n in the workcell 170. In this case, the system demonstration data can be used to bootstrap the actions of the base control policy. The base control policy can then be adapted into a customized control policy using more computationally expensive and sophisticated learning methods.
[0045]
Adapting a base control policy using local demonstration data has the highly desirable effect that it is relatively fast compared to generating the base control policy, e.g., either by collecting system demonstration data or by training using the generalized training data 165. For example, the size of the generalized training data 165 for a particular task tends to be orders of magnitude larger than the local demonstration data 115 and thus training the base control policy is expected to take much longer than adapting it for a particular robot. For example, training the base control policy can require vast computing resources, in some instances, a datacenter having hundreds or thousands of machines working for days or weeks to train the base control policy from generalized training data. In contrast, adapting the base control policy using local demonstration data 115 can take just a few hours.
[0046]
Similarly, collecting system demonstration data to define the base control policy can require many more iterations than are required for the local demonstration data. For example, to define a base control policy, a team of engineers can demonstration 1000 successful tasks and 1000 unsuccessful tasks. In contrast, sufficiently adapting the resulting base control policy might require only 50 successful demonstrations and 50 unsuccessful demonstrations.
[0047]
The training system 120 can thus refine a base control policy using the local demonstration data 115 in order to generate the customized control policy 125 for the particular robot that was used to generate the demonstration data. The customized control policy 125 adjusts the base control policy to account for characteristics of the particular robot as well as local variables for the task. Training the customized control policy 125 using local demonstration data can take far less time than training the base control policy. For example, while training the base control policy can take many days or weeks, a user might spend just 1-2 hours with a robot to generate the local demonstration data 115, which can then be uploaded to the training system 120. The training system 120 can then generate the customized control policy 125 in much less time than the time it took to train the base control policy, e.g., perhaps just an hour or two.
[0048]
In execution mode, an execution engine 130 can use the customized control policy 125 to automatically perform the task without any user intervention. The online execution system 110 can use the customized control policy 125 to generate commands 155 to be provided to the robot interface subsystem 160, which drives one or more robots, e.g., robots 170 a-n, in a workcell 170. The online execution system 110 can consume status messages 135 generated by the robots 170 a-n and online observations 145 made by one or more sensors 171 a-n making observations within the workcell 170. As illustrated in FIG. 1, each sensor 171 is coupled to a respective robot 170. However, the sensors need not have a one-to-one correspondence with robots and need not be coupled to the robots. In fact, each robot can have multiple sensors, and the sensors can be mounted on stationary or movable surfaces in the workcell 170.
[0049]
The execution engine 130 can use the status messages 135 and online observations 145 as input to the customized control policy 125 received from the training system 120. Thus, the robots 170 a-n can react in real time to complete the task according to their particular characteristics and the particular characteristics of the task.
[0050]
Thus, using local demonstration data to adjust a control policy results in a vastly different user experience. From the user's perspective, training a robot to perform a task very precisely with a customized control policy, including generating the local demonstration data and waiting for the customized control policy to be generated, is a very quick process that can take under a day of setup time. The speed comes from leveraging the precomputed base control policy.
[0051]
This arrangement introduces a vast technological improvement over existing robotic learning methods, which usually require weeks of testing and generating a hand-designed reward functions, weeks of generating suitable training data, and weeks more of training, testing, and refining the models so that they are suitable for industrial production.
[0052]
In addition, unlike traditional robotic reinforcement learning, using local demonstration data is highly robust to small perturbations in the characteristics of the robot, the task, and the environment. If a company purchases a new robot model, a user simply needs to spend a day generating new local demonstration data for a new customized control policy. This is in contrast to existing reinforcement learning methods in which any change to the physical characteristics of the robot, the task, or the environment may require starting the entire weeks-long process over from scratch.
[0053]
To initiate the demonstration-based learning process, the online execution system can receive a skill template 105 from the training system 120. As described above, the skill template 105 can specify a sequence of one or more subtasks required to perform a skill, which of the subtasks require local demonstration learning, and which perceptual streams will be needed for which subtasks, as well as transition conditions that specify when to transition from performing one subtask of the skill template to the next.
[0054]
As described above, a skill template can define demonstration subtasks that require local demonstration learning, nondemonstration subtasks that do not require local demonstration learning, or both.
[0055]
Demonstration subtasks are implicitly or explicitly tied to a base control policy, which can be precomputed from generalized training data or system demonstration data, as described above. Thus, a skill template can include a separate base control policy, or an identifier of a base control policy, for each demonstration subtask in the template.
[0056]
A skill template can also include, for each demonstration subtask, the software modules that are required to tune the demonstration subtask using local demonstration data. Each demonstration subtask can rely on a different type of machine learning model and can use different techniques for tuning. For example, a movement demonstration subtask can rely heavily on camera images of the local workcell environment in order to find a particular task goal. Thus, the tuning procedure for the movement demonstration subtask can more heavily tune the machine learning models to recognize features in camera images captured in the local demonstration data. In contrast, an insertion demonstration subtask can rely heavily on force feedback data for sensing the edges of a connection socket and using appropriately gentle forces to insert a connector into the socket. Therefore, the tuning procedure for the insertion demonstration subtask can more heavily tune the machine learning models that deal with force perception and corresponding feedback. In other words, even when the underlying models for subtasks in a skill template are the same, each subtask can have its own respective tuning procedures for incorporating local demonstration data in differing ways.
[0057]
Nondemonstration subtasks may or may not be associated with a base control policy. For example, a nondemonstration subtask can simply specify moving to a particular coordinate location. Alternatively, a nondemonstration subtask can be associated with a base control policy, e.g., as computed from other robots, that specifies how the joints should move to a particular coordinate location using sensor data.
[0058]
The purpose of a skill template is to provide a generalized framework for programming a robot to have a particular task capability. In particular, the skill template can be used to adapt a robot to perform similar tasks with relatively little effort. Adapting a skill template for a particular robot and a particular environment thus involves performing a training process for each demonstration subtask in the skill template. For brevity, this process may be referred to as training the skill template, even though multiple, separately trained models may be involved.
[0059]
For example, a user can download a connector insertion skill template that specifies performing a first movement subtask followed by a connector insertion subtask. The connector insertion skill template can also specify that the first subtask relies on a visual perceptual stream, e.g., from a camera, but that the second subtask relies on a force perceptual stream, e.g., from a force sensor. The connector insertion skill template can also specify that only the second subtask requires local demonstration learning. This can be because moving a robot to a particular location is usually not highly dependent on the circumstances of the task at hand or on the working environment. However, if the working environment has tight space requirements, the template may also specify that the first subtask requires local demonstration learning so that the robot can quickly learn to navigate through the tight space requirements of the working environment.
[0060]
To equip the robot with the connector insertion skill, a user merely needs to guide the robot in performing the subtasks that are indicated by the skill template as requiring local demonstration data. The robot will automatically capture the local demonstration data, which the training system can use to refine a base control policy associated with the connector insertion subtask. When training of the customized control policy is complete, the robot merely needs to download the final trained customized control policy in order to be equipped to perform the subtask.
[0061]
Notably, the same skill template can be used for many different kinds of tasks. For example, the same connector insertion skill template can be used to equip a robot to perform HDMI cable insertions or USB cable insertions or both. All that is required is for a user to demonstrate these different insertion subtasks in order to refine the base control policy for the demonstration subtask being learned. As described above, typically this process takes far less computing power and far less time than developing or learning a complete control policy from scratch.
[0062]
In addition, the skill template approach can be hardware agnostic. This means that a skill template can be used to equip a robot to perform a task even when the training system has never trained a control policy for that particular robot model. This technique thus solves many of the problems with using reinforcement learning to control robots. In particular, it solves the brittleness problem in which even very small hardware changes require re-learning a control policy from scratch, which is expensive and duplicative effort.
[0063]
To support collecting local demonstration data, the system 100 can also include one or more UI devices 180 and one or more demonstration devices 190. The UI devices 180 can help guide a user in obtaining local demonstration data that will be most beneficial in generating the customized control policy 125. The UI devices 180 can include user interfaces that instruct the user on what kinds of actions to perform or repeat, as well as augmented-reality devices that allow a user to control a robot without being physically next to the robot.
[0064]
The demonstration devices 190 are devices that are auxiliary to the primary operation of the system 100. Generally, the demonstration devices 190 are devices that allow a user to demonstrate a skill to a robot without introducing extraneous force data into the local demonstration data. In other words, the demonstration devices 190 can reduce the possibility that the user's demonstration action affect what the force sensors would actually read during execution.
[0065]
In operation, the robot interface subsystem 160 and the online execution system 110 can operate according to different timing constraints. In some implementations, the robot interface subsystem 160 is a real-time software control system with hard real-time requirements. Real-time software control systems are software systems that are required to execute within strict timing requirements to achieve normal operation. The timing requirements often specify that certain actions must be executed or outputs must be generated within a particular time window in order for the system to avoid entering a fault state. In the fault state, the system can halt execution or take some other action that interrupts normal operation.
[0066]
The online execution system 110, on the other hand, typically has more flexibility in operation. In other words, the online execution system 110 may, but need not, provide a command 155 within every real-time time window under which the robot interface subsystem 160 operates. However, in order to provide the ability to make sensor-based reactions, the online execution system 110 may still operate under strict timing requirements. In a typical system, the real-time requirements of the robot interface subsystem 160 require that the robots provide a command every 5 milliseconds, while the online requirements of the online execution system 110 specify that the online execution system 110 should provide a command 155 to the robot interface subsystem 160 every 20 milliseconds. However, even if such a command is not received within the online time window, the robot interface subsystem 160 need not necessarily enter a fault state.
[0067]
Thus, in this specification, the term online refers to both the time and rigidity parameters for operation. The time windows are larger than those for the real-time robot interface subsystem 160, and there is typically more flexibility when the timing constraints are not met. In some implementations, the robot interface subsystem 160 provides a hardware-agnostic interface so that the commands 155 issued by onsite execution engine 150 are compatible with multiple different versions of robots. During execution, the robot interface subsystem 160 can report status messages 135 back to the online execution system 110 so that the online execution system 150 can make online adjustments to the robot movements, e.g., due to local faults or other unanticipated conditions. The robots can be real-time robots, which means that the robots are programmed to continually execute their commands according to a highly constrained timeline. For example, each robot can expect a command from the robot interface subsystem 160 at a particular frequency, e.g., 100 Hz or 1 kHz. If the robot does not receive a command that is expected, the robot can enter a fault mode and stop operating.
[0068]
FIG. 2A is a diagram of an example system 200 for executing a subtask using a customized control policy based on local demonstration data. In general, data from multiple sensors 260 is fed through multiple, separately trained neural networks and combined into a single low-dimensional task state representation 205. The low-dimensional representation 205 is then used as an input to a tuned control policy 210, which is configured to generate a robot command 235 to be executed by a robot 270. The system 200 can thus implement a customized control policy based on local demonstration data by effectuating modifications of a base control policy through a modification subsystem 280.
[0069]
The sensors 260 can include perceptual sensors that generate perception data streams that represent visual characteristics of a robot or a target in a workcell of a robot. For example, in order to achieve better vision capability, a robot tool can be equipped with multiple cameras, e.g., visible light cameras, infrared cameras, and depth cameras, to name just a few examples.
[0070]
The different perception data streams 202 can be processed independently by a respective convolutional neural network 220 a-n. Each perception data stream 202 can correspond to a different perceptual sensor, e.g., a different camera or a different type of camera. The data from each camera can be processed by a different respective convolutional neural network.
[0071]
The sensors 260 also include one or more robot state sensors that generate robot state data streams 204 that represent physical characteristics of the robot or a component of the robot. For example, the robot state data streams 204 can represent force, torque, angles, positions, velocities, and accelerations, of the robot or respective components of the robot, to name just a few examples. Each of the robot state data streams 204 can be processed by a respective deep neural network 230 a-m.
[0072]
A modification subsystem 280 can have any arbitrary number of neural network subsystems processing sensor data in parallel. In some implementations, the system includes only one perceptual stream and one robot state data stream.
[0073]
The outputs of the neural network subsystems are respective portions of a task state representation 205 that cumulatively represents a state of a subtask being performed by the robot 270. In some implementations, the task state representation 205 is a low-dimensional representation having fewer than 100 features, e.g., 10, 30, or 50 features. Having a low-dimensional task state representation means that there are fewer model parameters to learn, which further increases the speed at which the local demonstration data can be used to adapt a particular subtask.
[0074]
The task state representation 205 is then used as input to the tuned control policy 210. During execution, the tuned control policy 210 generates, from an input task state representation 205, a robot command 235 that is then executed by the robot 270.
[0075]
During training, a training engine 240 generates parameter corrections 255 by using a representation of a locally demonstrated action 275 as well as a proposed command 245 generated by the tuned control policy 210. The training engine can then use the parameter corrections 255 to refine the tuned control policy 210 so that the command generated by the tuned control policy 210 in future iterations will more closely match the locally demonstrated action 275.
[0076]
In the training process, the tuned control policy 210 can be initialized with the base control policy associated with the demonstration subtask being trained. The tuned control policy 210 can be iteratively updated using locally demonstrated actions 275. The training engine 240 can use any appropriate machine learning technique for adjusting the tuned control policy 210, e.g., supervised learning, regression, or reinforcement learning. When the tuned control policy 210 is implemented using neural networks, the parameter corrections 235 can be backpropagated through the networks so that the output proposed command 245 is closer to the locally demonstrated action 275 on future iterations.
[0077]
As mentioned above, each subtask of a skill template can have different training priorities, even when the architecture of their underlying models are the same or similar. Thus, in some implementations, the training engine 240 can optionally take as input subtask hyperparameters 275 that specify how to update the tuned control policy 210. For example, a subtask hyperparameter can indicate that vision sensing is very important. Thus, the training engine 240 can more aggressively correct the tuned control policy 210 to align with camera data captured with the locally demonstrated action 275. In some implementations, the subtask hyperparameters 275 identify separate training modules to be used for each different subtask.
[0078]
FIG. 2B is a diagram of another example system for executing a subtask using local demonstration data. In this example, instead of having only a single tuned control policy, the system includes multiple independent control policies 210 a-n. Each control policy 210 a-n can use the task state representation 205 to generate a respective robot subcommand 234 a-n. The system can then combine the subcommands to generate a single robot command 235 to be executed by the robot 270.
[0079]
Having multiple, separately tunable control policies can be advantageous in a sensor-rich environment that, for example, can use data from multiple sensors having different update rates. For example, the different control policies 210 a-n can execute at different update rates, which allows the system to incorporate both simple and more sophisticated control algorithms into the same system. For example, one control policy can focus on robot commands using current force data, which can be updated at a much faster rate than image data. Meanwhile, another control policy can focus on robot commands using current image data, which may require more sophisticated image recognition algorithms, which may have nondeterministic run times. The result is a system that can both rapidly adapt to force data but also adapt to image data without slowing down its adaptations to force data. During training, the subtask hyperparameters can identify separate training procedures for each of the separately tunable control policies 210-an.
[0080]
FIG. 2C is a diagram of another example system for executing a subtask using residual reinforcement learning. In this example, instead of having a single tuned control policy that generates a robot command, the system uses a residual reinforcement learning subsystem 212 to generate a corrective action 225 that modifies a base action 215 generated by the base control policy 250.
[0081]
In this example, the base control policy 250 takes as input sensor data 245 from one or more sensors 260 and generates a base action 215. As described above, the output of the base control policy 250 can be one or more commands that are consumed by respective components of the robot 270.
[0082]
During execution, the reinforcement learning subsystem 212 generates, from the input task state representation 205, a corrective action 225 to be combined with the base action 215. The corrective action 225 is corrective in the sense that it modifies a base action 215 from the base control policy 250. The resulting robot command 235 can then be executed by the robot 270.
[0083]
Traditional reinforcement learning processes have used two stages: (1) an acting stage in which the system generates new candidate actions and (2) a training stage where the weights of the model are adjusted to maximize the cumulative reward of each candidate action. As described in the Background section above, traditional approaches to using reinforcement learning for robotics suffer from a severe sparse reward problem, meaning that actions that are randomly generated during the acting stage are extremely unlikely to earn any type of reward by a reward function for the task.
[0084]
But unlike traditional reinforcement learning, using local demonstration data can provide all information about which action to select during the acting stage. In other words, the local demonstration data can provide a sequence of actions, and thus, the actions do not need to be generated randomly. This technique greatly constrains the problem space and makes convergence of the models much faster.
[0085]
During training, local demonstration data is used to drive the robot 270. In other words, the robot command 235 generated from the corrective action 225 and the base action 215 need to be used to drive the robot 270. At each time step, the reinforcement learning subsystem 210 receives a representation of a demonstrated action that was used to physically move the robot 270. The reinforcement learning subsystem 210 also receives a base action 215 generated by the base control policy 250.
[0086]
The reinforcement learning subsystem 210 can then generate a reconstructed corrective action by comparing the demonstrated action to the base action 215. The reinforcement learning subsystem 210 can also use a reward function to generate an actual reward value for the reconstructed corrective action.
[0087]
The reinforcement learning subsystem 210 can also generate a predicted corrective action generated by the current state of the reinforcement learning model as well as a predicted reward value that would have been generated by using the predicted corrective action. The predicted corrective action is the corrective action that would have been generated by the reinforcement learning subsystem 210 for the current task state representation 205.
[0088]
The reinforcement learning subsystem 210 can then use the predicted corrective action, the predicted reward value, the reconstructed corrective action, and the actual reward value to compute weight updates for the reinforcement model. Over the iterations of training data, the weight updates serve to adjust the predicted corrective action toward the reconstructed corrective action reflected by the demonstration actions. The reinforcement learning subsystem 210 can compute the weight updates according to any appropriate reward maximization procedure.
[0089]
One capability afforded by the architectures illustrated in FIGS. 2A-C is the ability to combine multiple different models for sensor streams having different update rates. Some real-time robots have very tight control-loop requirements, and therefore, they can be equipped with force and torque sensors that generate high-frequency updates, e.g., at 100, 1000, or 10,000 Hz. In contrast, few cameras or depth cameras operate at more than 60 Hz.
[0090]
The architecture illustrated in FIGS. 2A-C having multiple parallel and independent sensor streams, and, optionally, multiple different control policies, allows these different data rates to be combined.
[0091]
FIG. 3A is a flow chart of an example process for combining sensor data from multiple different sensor streams. The process can be performed by a computer system having one or more computers in one or more locations, e.g., the system 100 of FIG. 1. The process will be described as being performed by a system of one or more computers.
[0092]
The system selects a base update rate (302). The base update rate will dictate the rate at which a learning subsystem, e.g. the tuned control policy 210, will generate commands to drive a robot. In some implementations, the system selects the base update rate based on a minimum real-time update rate of the robot. Alternatively, the system can select the base update rate based on a sensor that generates data at the fastest rate.
[0093]
The system generates respective portions of a task state representation at respective update rates (304). Because the neural network subsystems can operate independently and in parallel, the neural network subsystems can repeatedly generate respective portions of the task state representation at a rate dictated by the rate of their respective sensors.
[0094]
In order to enhance the independent and parallel nature of the system, in some implementations, the system maintains multiple separate memory devices or memory partitions into which the different portions of the task state representation will be written. This can prevent the different neural network subsystems from competing for memory access while generating their outputs at high frequency.
[0095]
The system repeatedly generates the task state representation at the base update rate (306). During each time period defined by the base update rate, the system can generate a new version of the task state representation by reading from most recently updated sensor data output by the plurality of neural network subsystems. For example, the system can read from multiple separate memory devices or memory partitions to generate a complete task state representation. Notably, this means that the data generated by some neural network subsystems is generated at a different rate than it is consumed. For example, for sensors having slower update rates, the data can be consumed at a much faster rate than it is generated.
[0096]
The system repeatedly uses the task state representations to generate commands for the robot at the base update rate (308). By using independent and parallel neural network subsystems, the system can ensure that the commands are generated at a sufficiently fast update rate in order to power even robots having hard real-time constraints.
[0097]
This arrangement also means that the system can simultaneously feed multiple independent control algorithms having different update frequencies. For example, as described above with respect to FIG. 2B, rather than the system generating a single command, the system can include multiple independent control policies that each generate a subcommand. The system can then generate a final command by combining the subcommands into a final, hybrid robot command that represents the output of multiple different control algorithms.
[0098]
For example, a visual control algorithm can cause a robot to move faster toward a recognized object. Meanwhile, a force control algorithm can cause a robot to track along a surface that it has made contact with. Even though the visual control algorithm is typically updated at a much slower rate than the force control algorithm, the system can still power both simultaneously at the base update rate using the architecture depicted in FIGS. 2A-C.
[0099]
The architecture illustrated in FIGS. 2A-C provides many opportunities for extending the capabilities of the system without major reengineering. The multiple parallel and independent data streams allow for implementing machine-learning functions that are advantageous for local demonstration learning.
[0100]
For example, to more thoroughly adapt a robot to perform in a particular environment, it can be highly advantageous to integrate sensors that take into account local environmental data.
[0101]
One example of using local environmental data is a function that considers electrical connectivity. Electrical connectivity can be useful as a reward factor for a variety of challenging robotics tasks that involve establishing an electrical current between two components. These tasks include inserting cables into jacks, inserting power plugs into power sockets, and screwing in lightbulbs, to name just a few examples.
[0102]
To integrate electrical connectivity into the modification subsystem 280, an electrical sensor, which for example can be one of the sensors 260, can be configured in the workcell to detect when an electrical current has been established. The output of the electrical sensor can then be processed by a separate neural network subsystem and the result can be added to the task state representation 205. Alternatively, the output of the electrical sensor can be provided directly as input to a system implementing the tuned control policy or a reinforcement learning subsystem.
[0103]
Another example of using local environmental data is a function that considers certain types of audio data. For example, many connector insertion tasks have very distinctive sounds when the task is completed successfully. Thus, the system can use a microphone to capture audio and an audio processing neural network whose output can be added to the task state representation. The system can then use a function that takes into consideration particular acoustic characteristics of the sound of a connector insertion, which forces the learning subsystem to learn what a successful connector insertion sounds like.
[0104]
FIG. 3B is a diagram of a camera wristband. The camera wristband is an example of the type of rich instrumentation that can be used to perform high-precision demonstration learning with the architecture described above. FIG. 3B is a perspective view in which the tool at the end of the robot arm is closest to the viewer.
[0105]
In this example, the camera wristband is mounted onto a robot arm 335 just before a tool 345 that is situated at the very end of the robot arm 335. The camera wristband is mounted onto the robot arm 335 with a collar 345 and has four radially mounted cameras 310 a-d.
[0106]
The collar 345 can have any appropriate convex shape that allows the collar 345 to be securely mounted to the end of a robot arm. The collar 345 can be designed to be added to a robot built by a third-party manufacturer. For example, a system that distributes skill templates can also distribute camera wristbands in order to aid non-expert users in getting models to converge quickly. Alternatively or in addition, the collar 345 can be integrated into the robot arm during the manufacturing process by the manufacturer.
[0107]
The collar 345 can have an ellipsoidal shape, e.g., circular or ovular, or a rectangular shape. The collar 345 can be formed from a single solid volume that is fastened to the end of the robot arm before the tool 345 is fastened. Or the collar 345 can be opened and securely closed by a fastening mechanism, e.g., a clasp or a latch. The collar 345 can be constructed out of any appropriate material that provides for a secure connection to the robot arm, e.g., hard plastic; fiberglass; fabric; or metal, e.g., aluminum or steel.
[0108]
Each camera 310 a-d has a respective mount 325 a-d that secures a sensor, other electronics, and a respective lens 315 a-d to the collar 345. The collar 345 can also include one or more lights 355 a-b for illuminating the volume captured by the cameras 310 a-d. In general, the cameras 310 a-d are arranged to capture different respective views of the tool 345 or of a working volume just beyond the tool 345.
[0109]
The example camera wristband has four radially mounted cameras, but any appropriate number of cameras can be used, e.g., 2, 5, or 10 cameras. As described above, the architecture of the modification subsystem 280 allows for any arbitrary number of sensor streams to be included into the task state representation. For example, a computer system associated with the robot can implement a different respective convolutional neural network to process the sensor data generated by each of the cameras 310 a-d in parallel. The processed camera outputs can then be combined to generate the task state representation, which as described above can be used to power multiple control algorithms running at different frequencies. As described above, the processed camera outputs can be combined with outputs from other networks that independently process the outputs of force sensors, a torque sensors, position sensors, velocity sensors, or tactile sensors, or any appropriate combination of these sensors.
[0110]
In general, using the camera wristband in the demonstration learning process results in faster convergence of the models because the system will be able to recognize reward conditions in many more positions and orientations. Thus, using the camera wristband has the effective further reducing the amount of training time required to adapt a base control policy with local demonstration data.
[0111]
FIG. 3C is another example view of a camera wristband. FIG. 3C illustrates further instrumentation that can be used to implement the camera wristband, including cabling 385 a-d that can be used to feed the outputs of the cameras to respective convolutional neural networks. FIG. 3C also illustrates how an additional depth camera 375 can also be mounted onto the collar 345. As described above, the architecture of the system allows any other sensors to be integrated into the perception system, thus, for example, a separately trained convolutional neural network can process the outputs of the depth camera 375 to generate another portion of the task state representation.
[0112]
FIG. 3D is another example view of a camera wristband. FIG. 3D is a perspective view of a camera wristband having a metal collar and four radially mounted cameras 317 a-d.
[0113]
With these basic mechanisms for using local demonstration data to refine control policies, users can compose tasks to build hardware-agnostic skill templates, which can be downloaded and used to rapidly deploy a task on many different kinds of robots and in many different kinds of environments.
[0114]
FIG. 4 illustrates an example skill template 400. In general, a skill template defines a state machine for a plurality of subtasks that are required to perform a task. Notably, the skill templates are hierarchically composable, meaning that each subtask can be a standalone task or another skill template.
[0115]
Each subtask of a skill template has a subtask id and includes subtask metadata, including whether the subtask is a demonstration subtask or a nondemonstration subtask, or whether the subtask refers to another skill template that should be separately trained. The subtask metadata can also indicate which sensor streams will be used to perform the subtask. Subtasks that are demonstration subtasks will additionally include a base policy id that identifies a base policy that will be combined with the corrective actions learning through learning from local demonstration data. Each demonstration subtask will also be explicitly or implicity associated with one or more software modules that control the training process for the subtask.
[0116]
Each subtask of a skill template also has one or more transition conditions that specify the conditions under which a transition to another task in the skill template should be made. The transition conditions may also be referred to as subtask goals of the subtask.
[0117]
The example in FIG. 4 illustrates a skill template for performing a task that has been notoriously difficult to achieve with traditional robotic learning techniques. The task is a grasp and connection insertion task, which requires a robot to find a wire in a workcell and insert a connector on one end of the wire into a socket that is also in the workcell. This problem is difficult to generalize with traditional reinforcement learning techniques because wires come in many different textures, diameters, and colors. In addition, if the grasping subtask of the skill is not successful, traditional reinforcement learning techniques fail to inform the robot what to do next or how it can make progress.
[0118]
The skill template 400 includes four subtasks that are represented in FIG. 4 as nodes of a graph that defines a state machine. In practice, all the information in FIG. 4 could be represented in any appropriate format, e.g., as a purely text configuration file or records in a relational database. Alternatively or in addition, a user interface device can generate a graphical skill template editor that allows a user to define a skill template through a graphical user interface.
[0119]
The first subtask in the skill template 400 is a movement subtask 410. The movement subtask 410 is designed to locate a wire in the workcell, which requires moving a robot from an initial position to an expected location of the wire, e.g., as placed by a previous robot in an assembly line. Moving from one location to the next is typically not very dependent on the local characteristics of the robot, and thus the metadata of the movement subtask 410 specifies that the subtask is a nondemonstration subtask. The metadata of the movement subtask 410 also specifies that the camera stream is needed in order to locate the wire.
[0120]
The movement subtask 410 also specifies an “acquired wire visual” transition condition 405, which indicates when the robot should transition to the next subtask in the skill template.
[0121]
The next subtask in the skill template 400 is a grasping subtask 420. The grasping subtask 420 is designed to grasp a wire in the workcell. This subtask is highly dependent on the characteristics of the wire and the characteristics of the robot, particularly the tool being used to grasp the wire. Therefore, the grasping subtask 420 is specified as a demonstration subtask that requires refinement with local demonstration data. The grasping subtask 420 is thus also associated with a base policy id that identifies a previously generated base control policy for grasping wires generally.
[0122]
The grasping subtask 420 also specifies that both camera streams and force sensor streams are required to perform the subtask.
[0123]
The grasping subtask 420 also includes three transition conditions. The first transition condition, the “lost wire visual” transition condition 415, is triggered when the robot loses visual contact with the wire. This can happen, for example, when the wire is unexpectedly moved in the workcell, e.g., by a human or another robot. In that case, the robot transitions back to the movement subtask 410.
[0124]
The second transition condition of the grasping subtask 420, the “grasp failure” transition condition 425, is triggered when the robot attempts to grasp the wire but fails. In that scenario, the robot can simply loop back and try the grasping subtask 420 again.
[0125]
The third transition condition of the grasping subtask 420, the “grasp success” transition condition 435, is triggered when the robot attempts to grasp the wire and succeeds.
[0126]
A demonstration subtask can also indicate which transition conditions require local demonstration data. For example, a particular subtask can indicate that local demonstration data is needed for all three transition conditions. Thus, a user can demonstrate how a grasp succeeds, demonstrate a failed grasp, and demonstrate a robot losing a visual on the wire.
[0127]
The next subtask in the skill template 400 is a second movement subtask 430. The movement subtask 430 is designed to move the grasped wire to a location in the workcell that is near the socket. In many connection and insertion situations that users would like robots to be able to perform, the socket is in a highly constrained space, e.g., inside of a dishwasher, a television, or a microwave under assembly. Because moving in that highly constrained space is highly dependent on the subtask and the workcell, the second movement task 430 is specified as a demonstration subtask, even though it only involves moving from one location in the workcell to another. Thus, movement subtasks can be either demonstration subtasks or nondemonstration subtasks, depending on the requirements of the skill.
[0128]
Although the second movement subtask 430 is indicated to be a demonstration subtask, the second movement subtask 430 does not specify any base policy id. This is because some subtasks are so highly dependent on the local workcell that including a base policy would only hamper convergence of the models. For example, if the second movement task 430 requires moving the robot in a very particular orientation inside of an appliance, a generalized base policy for moving would not be helpful. Thus, a user can perform a refinement process to generate local demonstration data, which demonstrates how the robot should move through the workcell in order to attain the particular orientation inside of the appliance.
[0129]
The second movement subtask 430 includes two transition conditions 445 and 485. The first “acquired socket visual” transition condition 445 is triggered when a camera stream makes visual contact with the socket.
[0130]
The second “dropped wire” transition condition 485 is triggered if the robot should happen to drop the wire while moving toward the socket. In that case, the skill template 400 specifies that the robot would need to go back to movement subtask 1 in order to start the skill over again. These kind of transition conditions within the skill template provides a level of built-in robustness and dynamic reaction for robots that traditional reinforcement learning techniques simply cannot provide.
[0131]
The last subtask in the skill template 400 is an insertion subtask 440. The insertion subtask 440 is designed to insert the connector of a grasped wire into a socket. The insertion subtask 440 is highly dependent on the type of wire and the type of socket, and thus, the skill template 400 indicates that the insertion subtask 440 is a demonstration subtask that is associated with base policy id that relates to insertion subtasks generally. The insertion subtask 440 also indicates that the subtask requires both camera streams and force sensor streams.
[0132]
The insertion subtask 440 includes three transition conditions. A first “insertion failure” transition condition 465 is triggered when insertion fails for any reason and specifies trying the insertion again. A second “lost socket visual” transition condition 455 is triggered when the socket should happen to move out of sight of the camera and specifies again moving the wire within the highly constrained space to the location of the socket. And lastly, a “dropped wire” transition condition 475 is triggered when the wire is dropped while performing the insertion task. In that case, the skill template 400 specifies going all the way back to the first movement subtask 410.
[0133]
One of the major advantages of the skill template illustrated in FIG. 4 is its composability by developers. This means that new skill templates can be composed from already developed subtasks. This functionality is also includes hierarchical composability, which means that each subtask within a particular skill template can reference another skill template.
[0134]
For example, in an alternative implementation, the insertion subtask 440 can actually reference an insertion skill template that defines a state machine of multiple finely controlled movements. For example, the insertion skill template can include a first movement subtask with a goal of as precisely as possible aligning a connector with a socket, a second movement subtask with a goal of subachieving contact between the connector and a side of the socket, and a third movement subtask with a goal of achieving a full connection by using the side of the socket as a force guide.
[0135]
And still further skill templates can be hierarchically composed from the skill template 400. For example, the skill template 400 can be one small piece of a more complex set of subtasks required to assemble an electronic appliance. The overall skill template can have multiple connector insertion subtasks that each reference a skill template for achieving the subtask, e.g., the skill template 400.
[0136]
FIG. 5 is a flowchart of an example process for configuring a robot to perform a skill using a skill template. The process can be performed by a computer system having one or more computers in one or more locations, e.g., the system 100 of FIG. 1. The process will be described as being performed by a system of one or more computers.
[0137]
The system receives a skill template (510). As described above, the skill template defines a state machine having a plurality of subtasks as well as transition conditions that define when a robot should transition from performing one task to the next. In addition, the skill template can define which of the tasks are demonstration subtasks that require refinement using local demonstration data.
[0138]
The system obtains a base control policy for a demonstration subtask of the skill template (520). The base control policy can be a generalized control policy that is generated from multiple different robot models.
[0139]
The system receives local demonstration data for the demonstration subtask (530). A user can use an input device or user interface to cause a robot to perform the demonstration subtask over multiple iterations. During this process, the system automatically generates local demonstration data for performing the subtask.
[0140]
The system trains a machine learning model for the demonstration subtask (540). As described above, the machine learning model can be configured to generate, for one or more input sensor streams, a command to be executed by the robot, and the machine learning model can be tuned using local demonstration data. In some implementations, the machine learning model is a residual reinforcement learning model that generates a corrective action to be combined with a base action generated by the base control policy.
[0141]
The system executes the skill template on the robot (550). After training all demonstration subtasks, the system can use the skill template to cause the robot to fully perform the task. During this process, the robot will use refined demonstration subtasks that are tailored specifically for the robot's hardware and working environment using local demonstration data.
[0142]
FIG. 6A is a flowchart of an example process for using a skill template for a task that uses force as a guide. The skill template arrangement described above provides for a relatively easy way to generate very sophisticated tasks that are composed of multiple, highly complex subtasks. One example of such a task in a connector insertion task that uses a task which considers force data as a guide. This allows a robot to achieve much higher precision than it would otherwise be capable of achieving. The process can be performed by a computer system having one or more computers in one or more locations, e.g., the system 100 of FIG. 1. The process will be described as being performed by a system of one or more computers.
[0143]
The system receives a skill template having a transition condition that requires establishment of physical contact force between an object held by a robot and a surface in the robot's environment (602). As described above, a skill template can define a state machine having a plurality of tasks. The transition condition can define a transition between a first subtask and a second subtask of the state machine.
[0144]
For example, the first subtask can be movement subtask and a second subtask can be an insertion subtask. The transition condition can specify that a connector held by a robot and to be inserted into a socket needs to make physical contact force with an edge of the socket.
[0145]
The system receives local demonstration data for the transition (604). In other words, the system can require the user to demonstrate the transition between the first subtask and the second subtask. The system can also require the user to demonstrate failure scenarios. One such failure scenario can be losing physical contact force with the edge of the socket. If that occurs, the skill template can specify returning back to the first movement subtask of the template so that the robot can reestablish physical contact force as specified by the transition condition.
[0146]
The system trains a machine learning model using the local demonstration data (606). As described above, through training, the system learns to avoid actions that result in the loss of physical contact force and learns to choose actions that are likely to maintain the physical contact force throughout the second task.
[0147]
The system executes the trained skill template on the robot (608). This causes the robot to automatically perform the subtasks and transitions defined by the skill template. For connection and insertion tasks, for example, the local demonstration data can cause the robot to be highly adapted to inserting one particular kind of connector.
[0148]
FIG. 6B is a flowchart of an example process for training a skill template using a cloud-based training system. In general, a system can generate all demonstration data locally and then upload the demonstration data to a cloud-based training system to train all the demonstration subtasks of a skill template. The process can be performed by a computer system having one or more computers in one or more locations, e.g., the system 100 of FIG. 1. The process will be described as being performed by a system of one or more computers.
[0149]
The system receives a skill template (610). For example, an online execution system can download the skill template from a cloud-based training system that will train the demonstration subtasks of the skill template or from another computer system.
[0150]
The system identifies one or more demonstration subtasks defined by the skill template (620). As described above, each subtask defined in the skill template can be associated with metadata that indicates whether the subtask is a demonstration subtask or a nondemonstration subtask.
[0151]
The system generates respective sets of local demonstration data for each of the one or more demonstration subtasks (630). As described above, the system can instantiate and deploy separate task systems that each generate local demonstration data while a user is manipulating a robot to perform the subtask in the local workcell. The task state representations can be generated at a base rate of the subtask, regardless of what the update rate is for the sensors that contribute data to the task state representation. This provides a convenient way to store and organize the local demonstration data, rather than generating many different sets of sensor data that have to all be somehow reconciled later on.
[0152]
The system uploads the sets of local demonstration data to a cloud-based training system (640). Most facilities that employ robots for real-world tasks do not have onsite datacenters that would be suitable for training sophisticated machine-learning models. Thus, while the local demonstration data can be collected on-site by a system that is co-located with the robot that will perform the task, the actual model parameters can be generated by a cloud-based training system that is accessible only over the Internet or another computer network.
[0153]
As described above, the size of the local demonstration data is expected to be orders of magnitude smaller than the size of data that is used to train the base control policies. Thus, although the local demonstration data may be large, the upload burden is manageable in a reasonable amount of time, e.g., a few minutes to an hour of uploading time.
[0154]
The cloud-based training system generates respective trained model parameters for each set of local demonstration data (650). As described above, the training system can train a learning system to generate robot commands, which can be, e.g., composed from corrective actions that correct base actions generated by a base control policy. As part of this process, the training system can obtain a respective base control policy for each demonstration subtask, either locally or from another computer system, which can be a third-party computer system that publishes the task or skill template.
[0155]
The cloud-based training system typically will have much more computing power than an online execution system. Thus, while there is a large computational burden involved in training each demonstration subtask, these operations can be massively parallelized on the cloud-based training system. Therefore, in a typical scenario, the time required to train a skill template from local demonstration data on a cloud-based training system is no more than a few hours.
[0156]
The system receives the trained model parameters generated by the cloud-based training system (660). The size of the trained model parameters is typically much smaller than the size of the local demonstration data for a particular subtask, thus, after the models are trained, downloading the trained parameters takes a negligible amount of time.
[0157]
The system executes the skill template using the trained model parameters generated by the cloud-based training system (670). As part of this process, the system can also download the base control policies for the demonstration subtasks, e.g., from the training system, from their original source, or from another source. The trained model parameters can then be used to generate commands for the robot to execute. In a reinforcement learning system for a demonstration subtask, the parameters can be used to generate corrective actions that modify base actions generated by the base control policies. The online execution system can then repeatedly issue the resulting robot commands to drive the robot to perform the particular task.
[0158]
The process described in FIG. 6B can be performed by a one-person team in the course of a single day to get a robot to perform highly precise skills in a way that is tailored to its environment. This is a vast improvement over traditional methods of manual programming or even traditional methods of reinforcement learning, which require teams of many engineers to work for many weeks or months designing, testing, and training models that do not generalize well to other scenarios.
[0159]
In this specification, a robot is a machine having a base position, one or more movable components, and a kinematic model that can be used to map desired positions, poses, or both in one coordinate system, e.g., Cartesian coordinates, into commands for physically moving the one or more movable components to the desired positions or poses. In this specification, a tool is a device that is part of and is attached at the end of the kinematic chain of the one or more moveable components of the robot. Example tools include grippers, welding devices, and sanding devices.
[0160]
In this specification, a task is an operation to be performed by a tool. For brevity, when a robot has only one tool, a task can be described as an operation to be performed by the robot as a whole. Example tasks include welding, glue dispensing, part positioning, and surfacing sanding, to name just a few examples. Tasks are generally associated with a type that indicates the tool required to perform the task, as well as a position within a workcell at which the task will be performed.
[0161]
In this specification, a motion plan is a data structure that provides information for executing an action, which can be a task, a cluster of tasks, or a transition. Motion plans can be fully constrained, meaning that all values for all controllable degrees of freedom for the robot are represented explicitly or implicitly; or underconstrained, meaning that some values for controllable degrees of freedom are unspecified. In some implementations, in order to actually perform an action corresponding to a motion plan, the motion plan must be fully constrained to include all necessary values for all controllable degrees of freedom for the robot. Thus, at some points in the planning processes described in this specification, some motion plans may be underconstrained, but by the time the motion plan is actually executed on a robot, the motion plan can be fully constrained. In some implementations, motion plans represent edges in a task graph between two configuration states for a single robot. Thus, generally there is one task graph per robot.
[0162]
In this specification, a motion swept volume is a region of the space that is occupied by a least a portion of a robot or tool during the entire execution of a motion plan. The motion swept volume can be generated by collision geometry associated with the robot-tool system.
[0163]
In this specification, a transition is a motion plan that describes a movement to be performed between a start point and an end point. The start point and end point can be represented by poses, locations in a coordinate system, or tasks to be performed. Transitions can be underconstrained by lacking one or more values of one or more respective controllable degrees of freedom (DOF) for a robot. Some transitions represent free motions. In this specification, a free motion is a transition in which none of the degrees of freedom are constrained. For example, a robot motion that simply moves from pose A to pose B without any restriction on how to move between these two poses is a free motion. During the planning process, the DOF variables for a free motion are eventually assigned values, and path planners can use any appropriate values for the motion that do not conflict with the physical constraints of the workcell.
[0164]
The robot functionalities described in this specification can be implemented by a hardware-agnostic software stack, or, for brevity just a software stack, that is at least partially hardware-agnostic. In other words, the software stack can accept as input commands generated by the planning processes described above without requiring the commands to relate specifically to a particular model of robot or to a particular robotic component. For example, the software stack can be implemented at least partially by the onsite execution engine 150 and the robot interface subsystem 160 of FIG. 1.
[0165]
The software stack can include multiple levels of increasing hardware specificity in one direction and increasing software abstraction in the other direction. At the lowest level of the software stack are robot components that include devices that carry out low-level actions and sensors that report low-level statuses. For example, robots can include a variety of low-level components including motors, encoders, cameras, drivers, grippers, application-specific sensors, linear or rotary position sensors, and other peripheral devices. As one example, a motor can receive a command indicating an amount of torque that should be applied. In response to receiving the command, the motor can report a current position of a joint of the robot, e.g., using an encoder, to a higher level of the software stack.
[0166]
Each next highest level in the software stack can implement an interface that supports multiple different underlying implementations. In general, each interface between levels provides status messages from the lower level to the upper level and provides commands from the upper level to the lower level.
[0167]
Typically, the commands and status messages are generated cyclically during each control cycle, e.g., one status message and one command per control cycle. Lower levels of the software stack generally have tighter real-time requirements than higher levels of the software stack. At the lowest levels of the software stack, for example, the control cycle can have actual real-time requirements. In this specification, real-time means that a command received at one level of the software stack must be executed and optionally, that a status message be provided back to an upper level of the software stack, within a particular control cycle time. If this real-time requirement is not met, the robot can be configured to enter a fault state, e.g., by freezing all operation.
[0168]
At a next-highest level, the software stack can include software abstractions of particular components, which will be referred to motor feedback controllers. A motor feedback controller can be a software abstraction of any appropriate lower-level components and not just a literal motor. A motor feedback controller thus receives state through an interface into a lower-level hardware component and sends commands back down through the interface to the lower-level hardware component based on upper-level commands received from higher levels in the stack. A motor feedback controller can have any appropriate control rules that determine how the upper-level commands should be interpreted and transformed into lower-level commands. For example, a motor feedback controller can use anything from simple logical rules to more advanced machine learning techniques to transform upper-level commands into lower-level commands. Similarly, a motor feedback controller can use any appropriate fault rules to determine when a fault state has been reached. For example, if the motor feedback controller receives an upper-level command but does not receive a lower-level status within a particular portion of the control cycle, the motor feedback controller can cause the robot to enter a fault state that ceases all operations.
[0169]
At a next-highest level, the software stack can include actuator feedback controllers. An actuator feedback controller can include control logic for controlling multiple robot components through their respective motor feedback controllers. For example, some robot components, e.g., a joint arm, can actually be controlled by multiple motors. Thus, the actuator feedback controller can provide a software abstraction of the joint arm by using its control logic to send commands to the motor feedback controllers of the multiple motors.
[0170]
At a next-highest level, the software stack can include joint feedback controllers. A joint feedback controller can represent a joint that maps to a logical degree of freedom in a robot. Thus, for example, while a wrist of a robot might be controlled by a complicated network of actuators, a joint feedback controller can abstract away that complexity and exposes that degree of freedom as a single joint. Thus, each joint feedback controller can control an arbitrarily complex network of actuator feedback controllers. As an example, a six degree-of-freedom robot can be controlled by six different joint feedback controllers that each control a separate network of actual feedback controllers.
[0171]
Each level of the software stack can also perform enforcement of level-specific constraints. For example, if a particular torque value received by an actuator feedback controller is outside of an acceptable range, the actuator feedback controller can either modify it to be within range or enter a fault state.
[0172]
To drive the input to the joint feedback controllers, the software stack can use a command vector that includes command parameters for each component in the lower levels, e.g. a positive, torque, and velocity, for each motor in the system. To expose status from the joint feedback controllers, the software stack can use a status vector that includes status information for each component in the lower levels, e.g., a position, velocity, and torque for each motor in the system. In some implementations, the command vectors also include some limit information regarding constraints to be enforced by the controllers in the lower levels.
[0173]
At a next-highest level, the software stack can include joint collection controllers. A joint collection controller can handle issuing of command and status vectors that are exposed as a set of part abstractions. Each part can include a kinematic model, e.g., for performing inverse kinematic calculations, limit information, as well as a joint status vector and a joint command vector. For example, a single joint collection controller can be used to apply different sets of policies to different subsystems in the lower levels. The joint collection controller can effectively decouple the relationship between how the motors are physically represented and how control policies are associated with those parts. Thus, for example if a robot arm has a movable base, a joint collection controller can be used to enforce a set of limit policies on how the arm moves and to enforce a different set of limit policies on how the movable base can move.
[0174]
At a next-highest level, the software stack can include joint selection controllers. A joint selection controller can be responsible for dynamically selecting between commands being issued from different sources. In other words, a joint selection controller can receive multiple commands during a control cycle and select one of the multiple commands to be executed during the control cycle. The ability to dynamically select from multiple commands during a real-time control cycle allows greatly increased flexibility in control over conventional robot control systems.
[0175]
At a next-highest level, the software stack can include joint position controllers. A joint position controller can receive goal parameters and dynamically compute commands required to achieve the goal parameters. For example, a joint position controller can receive a position goal and can compute a set point for achieve the goal.
[0176]
At a next-highest level, the software stack can include Cartesian position controllers and Cartesian selection controllers. A Cartesian position controller can receive as input goals in Cartesian space and use inverse kinematics solvers to compute an output in joint position space. The Cartesian selection controller can then enforce limit policies on the results computed by the Cartesian position controllers before passing the computed results in joint position space to a joint position controller in the next lowest level of the stack. For example, a Cartesian position controller can be given three separate goal states in Cartesian coordinates x, y, and z. For some degrees, the goal state could be a position, while for other degrees, the goal state could be a desired velocity.
[0177]
These functionalities afforded by the software stack thus provide wide flexibility for control directives to be easily expressed as goal states in a way that meshes naturally with the higher-level planning techniques described above. In other words, when the planning process uses a process definition graph to generate concrete actions to be taken, the actions need not be specified in low-level commands for individual robotic components. Rather, they can be expressed as high-level goals that are accepted by the software stack that get translated through the various levels until finally becoming low-level commands. Moreover, the actions generated through the planning process can be specified in Cartesian space in way that makes them understandable for human operators, which makes debugging and analyzing the schedules easier, faster, and more intuitive. In addition, the actions generated through the planning process need not be tightly coupled to any particular robot model or low-level command format. Instead, the same actions generated during the planning process can actually be executed by different robot models so long as they support the same degrees of freedom and the appropriate control levels have been implemented in the software stack.
[0178]
Embodiments of the subject matter and the functional operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry, in tangibly-embodied computer software or firmware, in computer hardware, including the structures disclosed in this specification and their structural equivalents, or in combinations of one or more of them. Embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented as one or more computer programs, i.e., one or more modules of computer program instructions encoded on a tangible non-transitory storage medium for execution by, or to control the operation of, data processing apparatus. The computer storage medium can be a machine-readable storage device, a machine-readable storage substrate, a random or serial access memory device, or a combination of one or more of them. Alternatively or in addition, the program instructions can be encoded on an artificially-generated propagated signal, e.g., a machine-generated electrical, optical, or electromagnetic signal, that is generated to encode information for transmission to suitable receiver apparatus for execution by a data processing apparatus.
[0179]
The term “data processing apparatus” refers to data processing hardware and encompasses all kinds of apparatus, devices, and machines for processing data, including by way of example a programmable processor, a computer, or multiple processors or computers. The apparatus can also be, or further include, special purpose logic circuitry, e.g., an FPGA (field programmable gate array) or an ASIC (application-specific integrated circuit). The apparatus can optionally include, in addition to hardware, code that creates an execution environment for computer programs, e.g., code that constitutes processor firmware, a protocol stack, a database management system, an operating system, or a combination of one or more of them.
[0180]
A computer program which may also be referred to or described as a program, software, a software application, an app, a module, a software module, a script, or code) can be written in any form of programming language, including compiled or interpreted languages, or declarative or procedural languages, and it can be deployed in any form, including as a stand-alone program or as a module, component, subroutine, or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A program may, but need not, correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data, e.g., one or more scripts stored in a markup language document, in a single file dedicated to the program in question, or in multiple coordinated files, e.g., files that store one or more modules, sub-programs, or portions of code. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a data communication network.
[0181]
For a system of one or more computers to be configured to perform particular operations or actions means that the system has installed on it software, firmware, hardware, or a combination of them that in operation cause the system to perform the operations or actions. For one or more computer programs to be configured to perform particular operations or actions means that the one or more programs include instructions that, when executed by data processing apparatus, cause the apparatus to perform the operations or actions.
[0182]
As used in this specification, an “engine,” or “software engine,” refers to a software implemented input/output system that provides an output that is different from the input. An engine can be an encoded block of functionality, such as a library, a platform, a software development kit (“SDK”), or an object. Each engine can be implemented on any appropriate type of computing device, e.g., servers, mobile phones, tablet computers, notebook computers, music players, e-book readers, laptop or desktop computers, PDAs, smart phones, or other stationary or portable devices, that includes one or more processors and computer readable media. Additionally, two or more of the engines may be implemented on the same computing device, or on different computing devices.
[0183]
The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable computers executing one or more computer programs to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by special purpose logic circuitry, e.g., an FPGA or an ASIC, or by a combination of special purpose logic circuitry and one or more programmed computers.
[0184]
Computers suitable for the execution of a computer program can be based on general or special purpose microprocessors or both, or any other kind of central processing unit. Generally, a central processing unit will receive instructions and data from a read-only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a central processing unit for performing or executing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. The central processing unit and the memory can be supplemented by, or incorporated in, special purpose logic circuitry. Generally, a computer will also include, or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to, or both, one or more mass storage devices for storing data, e.g., magnetic, magneto-optical disks, or optical disks. However, a computer need not have such devices. Moreover, a computer can be embedded in another device, e.g., a mobile telephone, a personal digital assistant (PDA), a mobile audio or video player, a game console, a Global Positioning System (GPS) receiver, or a portable storage device, e.g., a universal serial bus (USB) flash drive, to name just a few.
[0185]
Computer-readable media suitable for storing computer program instructions and data include all forms of non-volatile memory, media and memory devices, including by way of example semiconductor memory devices, e.g., EPROM, EEPROM, and flash memory devices; magnetic disks, e.g., internal hard disks or removable disks; magneto-optical disks; and CD-ROM and DVD-ROM disks.
[0186]
To provide for interaction with a user, embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device, e.g., a CRT (cathode ray tube) or LCD (liquid crystal display) monitor, for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and pointing device, e.g. a mouse, trackball, or a presence sensitive display or other surface by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well; for example, feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback, e.g., visual feedback, auditory feedback, or tactile feedback; and input from the user can be received in any form, including acoustic, speech, or tactile input. In addition, a computer can interact with a user by sending documents to and receiving documents from a device that is used by the user; for example, by sending web pages to a web browser on a user's device in response to requests received from the web browser. Also, a computer can interact with a user by sending text messages or other forms of message to a personal device, e.g., a smartphone, running a messaging application, and receiving responsive messages from the user in return.
[0187]
Embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back-end component, e.g., as a data server, or that includes a middleware component, e.g., an application server, or that includes a front-end component, e.g., a client computer having a graphical user interface, a web browser, or an app through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described in this specification, or any combination of one or more such back-end, middleware, or front-end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication, e.g., a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network (LAN) and a wide area network (WAN), e.g., the Internet.
[0188]
The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client-server relationship to each other. In some embodiments, a server transmits data, e.g., an HTML page, to a user device, e.g., for purposes of displaying data to and receiving user input from a user interacting with the device, which acts as a client. Data generated at the user device, e.g., a result of the user interaction, can be received at the server from the device.
[0189]
In addition to the embodiments described above, the following embodiments are also innovative:
[0190]
Embodiment 1 is a method comprising:
receiving a skill template for a task to be performed by a robot, wherein the skill template defines a state machine having a plurality of subtasks and one or more respective transition conditions between one or more of the subtasks,
wherein the skill template indicates which of the subtasks are demonstration subtasks to be refined using local demonstration data;
obtaining a base control policy for a demonstration subtask of the skill template;
receiving, for the demonstration subtask of the skill template, local demonstration data generated from a user demonstrating with the robot how to perform the demonstration subtask;
refining a machine learning model for the demonstration subtask, wherein the machine learning model for the demonstration subtask is configured to generate, using one or more input sensor streams, a command to be executed by the robot; and
executing the skill template on the robot, thereby causing the robot to transition through the state machine defined by the skill template to perform the task, including performing commands generated by the machine learning model.
[0197]
Embodiment 2 is the method of embodiment 1, wherein receiving local demonstration data comprises receiving local demonstration data for each of a plurality of transition conditions for the demonstration subtask of the skill template.
[0198]
Embodiment 3 is the method of any one of embodiments 1-2, wherein the skill template specifies that fewer than all transition conditions of the demonstration subtask require local demonstration data.
[0199]
Embodiment 4 is the method of any one of embodiments 1-3, wherein the skill template is hardware-agnostic.
[0200]
Embodiment 5 is the method of embodiment 4, further comprising adapting the skill template for a plurality of different robot models including generating respective local demonstration data by the plurality of different robot models.
[0201]
Embodiment 6 is the method of any one of embodiments 1-5, wherein the skill template specifies, for each subtask of the plurality of subtasks, which input sensor streams are required to complete the subtask.
[0202]
Embodiment 7 is the method of embodiment 6, wherein the base control policy was generated from demonstrations on a plurality of different robot models.
[0203]
Embodiment 8 is the method of any one of embodiments 1-7, wherein a first subtask of the skill template references a different second skill template having a plurality of second subtasks.
[0204]
Embodiment 9 is a system comprising: one or more computers and one or more storage devices storing instructions that are operable, when executed by the one or more computers, to cause the one or more computers to perform the method of any one of embodiments 1 to 8.
[0205]
Embodiment 10 is a computer storage medium encoded with a computer program, the program comprising instructions that are operable, when executed by data processing apparatus, to cause the data processing apparatus to perform the method of any one of embodiments 1 to 8.
[0206]
While this specification contains many specific implementation details, these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of any invention or on the scope of what may be claimed, but rather as descriptions of features that may be specific to particular embodiments of particular inventions. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate embodiments can also be implemented in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely, various features that are described in the context of a single embodiment can also be implemented in multiple embodiments separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover, although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially be claimed as such, one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination, and the claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.
[0207]
Similarly, while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order, this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order, or that all illustrated operations be performed, to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances, multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover, the separation of various system modules and components in the embodiments described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all embodiments, and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.
[0208]
Particular embodiments of the subject matter have been described. Other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims. For example, the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results. As one example, the processes depicted in the accompanying figures do not necessarily require the particular order shown, or sequential order, to achieve desirable results. In certain some cases, multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous.
Claims (20)
Hide Dependent 
What is claimed is:
1. A method performed by one or more computers, the method comprising:
receiving a skill template for a task to be performed by a robot, wherein the skill template defines a state machine having a plurality of subtasks and one or more respective transition conditions between one or more of the subtasks,
wherein the skill template indicates which of the subtasks are demonstration subtasks to be refined using local demonstration data;
obtaining a base control policy for a demonstration subtask of the skill template;
receiving, for the demonstration subtask of the skill template, local demonstration data generated from a user demonstrating with the robot how to perform the demonstration subtask;
refining a machine learning model for the demonstration subtask, wherein the machine learning model for the demonstration subtask is configured to generate, using one or more input sensor streams, a command to be executed by the robot; and
executing the skill template on the robot, thereby causing the robot to transition through the state machine defined by the skill template to perform the task, including performing commands generated by the machine learning model.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving local demonstration data comprises receiving local demonstration data for each of a plurality of transition conditions for the demonstration subtask of the skill template.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the skill template specifies that fewer than all transition conditions of the demonstration subtask require local demonstration data.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the skill template is hardware-agnostic.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising adapting the skill template for a plurality of different robot models including generating respective local demonstration data by the plurality of different robot models.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the skill template specifies, for each subtask of the plurality of subtasks, which input sensor streams are required to complete the subtask.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the base control policy was generated from demonstrations on a plurality of different robot models.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein a first subtask of the skill template references a different second skill template having a plurality of second subtasks.
9. A system comprising:
one or more computers and one or more storage devices storing instructions that are operable, when executed by the one or more computers, to cause the one or more computers to perform operations comprising:
receiving a skill template for a task to be performed by a robot, wherein the skill template defines a state machine having a plurality of subtasks and one or more respective transition conditions between one or more of the subtasks,
wherein the skill template indicates which of the subtasks are demonstration subtasks to be refined using local demonstration data;
obtaining a base control policy for a demonstration subtask of the skill template;
receiving, for the demonstration subtask of the skill template, local demonstration data generated from a user demonstrating with the robot how to perform the demonstration subtask;
refining a machine learning model for the demonstration subtask, wherein the machine learning model for the demonstration subtask is configured to generate, using one or more input sensor streams, a command to be executed by the robot; and
executing the skill template on the robot, thereby causing the robot to transition through the state machine defined by the skill template to perform the task, including performing commands generated by the machine learning model.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein receiving local demonstration data comprises receiving local demonstration data for each of a plurality of transition conditions for the demonstration subtask of the skill template.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein the skill template specifies that fewer than all transition conditions of the demonstration subtask require local demonstration data.
12. The system of claim 9, wherein the skill template is hardware-agnostic.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the operations further comprise adapting the skill template for a plurality of different robot models including generating respective local demonstration data by the plurality of different robot models.
14. The system of claim 9, wherein the skill template specifies, for each subtask of the plurality of subtasks, which input sensor streams are required to complete the subtask.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the base control policy was generated from demonstrations on a plurality of different robot models.
16. The system of claim 9, wherein a first subtask of the skill template references a different second skill template having a plurality of second subtasks.
17. One or more non-transitory computer storage media encoded with computer program instructions that when executed by one or more computers cause the one or more computers to perform operations comprising:
receiving a skill template for a task to be performed by a robot, wherein the skill template defines a state machine having a plurality of subtasks and one or more respective transition conditions between one or more of the subtasks,
wherein the skill template indicates which of the subtasks are demonstration subtasks to be refined using local demonstration data;
obtaining a base control policy for a demonstration subtask of the skill template;
receiving, for the demonstration subtask of the skill template, local demonstration data generated from a user demonstrating with the robot how to perform the demonstration subtask;
refining a machine learning model for the demonstration subtask, wherein the machine learning model for the demonstration subtask is configured to generate, using one or more input sensor streams, a command to be executed by the robot; and
executing the skill template on the robot, thereby causing the robot to transition through the state machine defined by the skill template to perform the task, including performing commands generated by the machine learning model.
18. The one or more non-transitory computer storage media of claim 17, wherein receiving local demonstration data comprises receiving local demonstration data for each of a plurality of transition conditions for the demonstration subtask of the skill template.
19. The one or more non-transitory computer storage media of claim 17, wherein the skill template specifies that fewer than all transition conditions of the demonstration subtask require local demonstration data.
20. The one or more non-transitory computer storage media of claim 17, wherein the skill template is hardware-agnostic.


WO2016034269A1：

Description
ROBOTIC MANIPULATION METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR EXECUTING A DOMAIN-SPECIFIC APPLICATION IN AN INSTRUMENTED ENVIRONMENT WITH ELECTRONIC MINIMANIPULATION LIBRARIES
BACKGROUND
CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001] This application is a continuation-in-part of co-pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14/627,900 entitled "Methods and Systems for Food Preparation in a Robotic Cooking Kitchen," filed 20 February 2015.
[0002] This continuation-in-part application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62/202,030 entitled "Robotic Manipulation Methods and Systems Based on Electronic Mini- Manipulation Libraries," filed 6 August 2015, U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62/189,670 entitled "Robotic Manipulation Methods and Systems Based on Electronic Minimanipulation Libraries," filed 7 July 2015, U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62/166,879 entitled "Robotic Manipulation Methods and Systems Based on Electronic Minimanipulation Libraries," filed 27 May 2015, U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62/161,125 entitled "Robotic Manipulation Methods and Systems Based on Electronic Minimanipulation Libraries," filed 13 May 2015, U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62/146,367 entitled "Robotic Manipulation Methods and Systems Based on Electronic Minimanipulation Libraries," filed 12 April 2015, U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62/116,563 entitled "Method and System for Food Preparation in a Robotic Cooking Kitchen," filed 16 February 2015, U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62/113,516 entitled "Method and System for Food Preparation in a Robotic Cooking Kitchen," filed 8 February 2015, U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62/109,051 entitled "Method and System for Food Preparation in a Robotic Cooking Kitchen," filed 28 January 2015, U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62/104,680 entitled "Method and System for Robotic Cooking Kitchen," filed 16 January 2015, U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62/090,310 entitled "Method and System for Robotic Cooking Kitchen," filed 10 December 2014, U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62/083,195 entitled "Method and System for Robotic Cooking Kitchen," filed 22 November 2014, U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62/073,846 entitled "Method and System for Robotic Cooking Kitchen," filed 31 October 2014, U.S. Provisional Application Ser. 62/055,799 entitled "Method and System for Robotic Cooking Kitchen," filed 26 September 2014, U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62/044,677, entitled "Method and System for Robotic Cooking Kitchen," filed 2 September 2014. [0003] The U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14/627,900 claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62/116,563 entitled "Method and System for Food Preparation in a Robotic Cooking Kitchen," filed 16 February 2015, U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62/113,516 entitled "Method and System for Food Preparation in a Robotic Cooking Kitchen," filed 8 February 2015, U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62/109,051 entitled "Method and System for Food Preparation in a Robotic Cooking Kitchen," filed 28 January 2015, U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62/104,680 entitled "Method and System for Robotic Cooking Kitchen," filed 16 January 2015, U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62/090,310 entitled "Method and System for Robotic Cooking Kitchen," filed 10 December 2014, U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62/083,195 entitled "Method and System for Robotic Cooking Kitchen," filed 22 November 2014, U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62/073,846 entitled "Method and System for Robotic Cooking Kitchen," filed 31 October 2014, U.S. Provisional Application Ser. 62/055,799 entitled "Method and System for Robotic Cooking Kitchen," filed 26 September 2014, U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62/044,677, entitled "Method and System for Robotic Cooking Kitchen," filed 2 September 2014, U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62/024,948 entitled "Method and System for Robotic Cooking Kitchen," filed 15 July 2014, U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62/013,691 entitled "Method and System for Robotic Cooking Kitchen," filed 18 June 2014, U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62/013,502 entitled "Method and System for Robotic Cooking Kitchen," filed 17 June 2014, U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62/013,190 entitled "Method and System for Robotic Cooking Kitchen," filed 17 June 2014, U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61/990,431 entitled "Method and System for Robotic Cooking Kitchen," filed 8 May 2014, U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61/987,406 entitled "Method and System for Robotic Cooking Kitchen," filed 1 May 2014, U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61/953,930 entitled "Method and System for Robotic Cooking Kitchen," filed 16 March 2014, and U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61/942,559 entitled "Method and System for Robotic Cooking Kitchen," filed 20 February 2014.
[0004] The subject matter of all of the foregoing disclosures is incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.
Technical Field
[0005] The present disclosure relates generally to the interdisciplinary fields of robotics and artificial intelligence (Al), more particularly to computerized robotic systems employing electronic libraries of minimanipulations with transformed robotic instructions for replicating movements, processes, and techniques with real-time electronic adjustments.
Background Art
[0006] Research and development in robotics have been undertaken for decades, but the progress has been mostly in the heavy industrial applications like automobile manufacturing automation or military applications. Simple robotics systems have been designed for the consumer markets, but they have not seen a wide application in the home-consumer robotics space, thus far. With advances in technology, combined with a population with higher incomes, the market may be ripe to create opportunities for technological advances to improve people's lives. Robotics has continued to improve automation technology with enhanced artificial intelligence and emulation of human skills and tasks in many forms in operating a robotic appratus or a humanoid.
[0007] The notion of robots replacing humans in certain areas and executing tasks that humans would typically perform is an ideology in continuous evolution since robots were first developed in the 1970s. Manufacturing sectors have long used robots in teach-playback mode, where the robot is taught, via pendant or offline fixed-trajectory generation and download, which motions to copy continuously and without alteration or deviation. Companies have taken the pre-programmed trajectory-execution of computer-taught trajectories and robot motion-playback into such application domains as mixing drinks, welding or painting cars, and others. However, all of these conventional applications use a 1:1 computer-to-robot or tech-playback principle that is intended to have only the robot faithfully execute the motion-commands, which is usually following a taught/pre-computed trajectory without deviation.
SUMMARY OF THE DISCLOSURE
[0008] Embodiments of the present disclosure are directed to methods, computer program products, and computer systems of a robotic apparatus with robotic instructions replicating a food dish with substantially the same result as if the chef had prepared the food dish. In a first embodiment, the robotic apparatus in a standardized robotic kitchen comprises two robotic arms and hands that replicate the precise movements of a chef in the same sequence (or substantially the same sequence). The two robotic arms and hands replicate the movements in the same timing (or substantially the same timing) to prepare a food dish based on a previously recorded software file (a recipe-script) of the chef's precise movements in preparing the same food dish. In a second embodiment, a computer-controlled cooking apparatus prepares a food dish based on a sensory-curve, such as temperature over time, which was previously recorded in a software file where the chef prepared the same food dish with the cooking apparatus with sensors for which a computer recorded the sensor values over time when the chef previously prepared the food dish on the cooking apparatus fitted with sensors. In a third embodiment, the kitchen apparatus comprises the robotic arms in the first embodiment and the cooking apparatus with sensors in the second embodiment to prepare a dish that combines both the robotic arms and one or more sensory curves, where the robotic arms are capable of quality-checking a food dish during the cooking process, for such characteristics as taste, smell, and appearance, allowing for any cooking adjustments to the preparation steps of the food dish. In a fourth embodiment, the kitchen apparatus comprises a food storage system with computer-controlled containers and container identifiers for storing and supplying ingredients for a user to prepare a food dish by following a chef's cooking instructions. In a fifth embodiment, a robotic cooking kitchen comprises a robot with arms and a kitchen apparatus in which the robot moves around the kitchen apparatus to prepare a food dish by emulating a chef's precise cooking movements, including possible real-time modifications/adaptations to the preparation process defined in the recipe-script.
[0009] A robotic cooking engine comprises detection, recording, and chef emulation cooking movements, controlling significant parameters, such as temperature and time, and processing the execution with designated appliances, equipment, and tools, thereby reproducing a gourmet dish that tastes identical to the same dish prepared by a chef and served at a specific and convenient time. In one embodiment, a robotic cooking engine provides robotic arms for replicating a chef's identical movements with the same ingredients and techniques to produce an identical tasting dish.
[0010] The underlying motivation of the present disclosure centers around humans being monitored with sensors during their natural execution of an activity, and then, being able to use monitoring-sensors, capturing-sensors, computers, and software to generate information and commands to replicate the human activity using one or more robotic and/or automated systems. While one can conceive of multiple such activities (e.g. cooking, painting, playing an instrument, etc.), one aspect of the present disclosure is directed to the cooking of a meal: in essence, a robotic meal preparation application. Monitoring a human chef is carried out in an instrumented application-specific setting (a standardized kitchen in this case), and involves using sensors and computers to watch, monitor, record, and interpret the motions and actions of the human chef, in order to develop a robot- executable set of commands robust to variations and changes in an environment that is capable of allowing a robotic or automated system in a robotic kitchen prepare the same dish to the standards and quality as the dish prepared by the human chef.
[0011] The use of multimodal sensing systems is the means by which the necessary raw data is collected. Sensors capable of collecting and providing such data include environment and geometrical sensors, such as two- (cameras, etc.) and three-dimensional (lasers, sonar, etc.) sensors, as well as human motion-capture systems (human-worn camera-targets, instrumented suits/exoskeletons, instrumented gloves, etc.), as well as instrumented (sensors) and powered (actuators) equipment used during recipe creation and execution (instrumented appliances, cooking-equipment, tools, ingredient dispensers, etc.). All this data is collected by one or more distributed/central computers and processed by a variety of software processes. The algorithms will process and abstract the data to the point that a human and a computer-controlled robotic kitchen can understand the activities, tasks, actions, equipment, ingredients and methods, and processes used by the human, including replication of key skills of a particular chef. The raw data is processed by one or more software abstraction engines to create a recipe-script that is both human-readable and, through further processing, machine- understandable and machine-executable, spelling out all actions and motions for all steps of a particular recipe that a robotic kitchen would have to execute. These commands range in complexity from controlling individual joints, to a particular joint-motion profile over time, to abstraction levels of commands, with lower-level motion-execution commands embedded therein, associated with specific steps in a recipe. Abstraction motion-commands (e.g. "crack an egg into the pan", "sear to a golden color on both sides", etc.) can be generated from the raw data, refined, and optimized through a multitude of iterative learning processes, carried out live and/or off-line, allowing the robotic kitchen systems to successfully deal with measurement-uncertainties, ingredient variations, etc., enabling complex (adaptive) minimanipulation motions using fingered-hands mounted to robot-arms and wrists, based on fairly abstraction/high-level commands (e.g. "grab the pot by the handle", "pour out the contents", "grab the spoon off the countertop and stir the soup", etc.).
[0012] The ability to create machine-executable command sequences, now contained within digital files capable of being shared/transmitted, allowing any robotic kitchen to execute them, opens up the option to execute the dish-preparation steps anywhere at any time. Hence, it allows the option to buy/sell recipes online, allowing users to access and distribute recipes on a per-use or subscription basis.
[0013] The replication of a dish prepared by a human is performed by a robotic kitchen, which is in essence a standardized replica of the instrumented kitchen used by the human chef during the creation of the dish, except that the human's actions are now carried out by a set of robotic arms and hands, computer-monitored and computer-controllable appliances, equipment, tools, dispensers, etc. The degree of dish-replication fidelity will thus be closely tied to the degree to which the robotic kitchen is a replica of the kitchen (and all its elements and ingredients), in which the human chef was observed while preparing the dish.
[0014] Broadly stated, a humanoid having a robot computer controller operated by robot operating system (ROS) with robotic instructions comprises a database having a plurality of electronic minimanipulation libraries, each electronic minimanipulation library including a plurality of minimanipulation elements. The plurality of electronic minimanipulation libraries can be combined to create one or more machine executable application-specific instruction sets, and the plurality of minimanipulation elements within a electronic minimanipulation library can be combined to create one or more machine executable application-specific instruction sets; a robotic structure having an upper body and a lower body connected to a head through an articulated neck, the upper body including torso, shoulder, arms, and hands; and a control system, communicatively coupled to the database, a sensory system, a sensor data interpretation system, a motion planner, and actuators and associated controllers, the control system executing application-specific instruction sets to operate the robotic structure.
[0015] In addition, embodiments of the present disclosure are directed to methods, computer program products, and computer systems of a robotic apparatus for executing robotic instructions from one or more libraries of minimanipulations. Two types of parameters, elemental parameters and application parameters, affect the operations of minimanipulations. During the creation phase of a minimanipulation, the elemental parameters provide the variables that test the various combinations, permutations, and the degrees of freedom to produce successful minimanipulations. During the execution phase of minimanipulations, application parameters are programmable or can be customized to tailor one or more libraries of minimanipulations to a particular application, such as food preparation, making sushi, playing piano, painting, picking up a book, and other types of applications.
[0016] Minimanipulations comprise a new way of creating a general programmable-by-example platform for humanoid robots. The state of the art largely requires explicit development of control software by expert programmers for each and every step of a robotic action or action sequence. The exception to the above are for very repetitive low level tasks, such as factory assembly, where the rudiments of learning-by-imitation are present. A minimanipulation library provides a large suite of higher-level sensing-and-execution sequences that are common building blocks for complex tasks, such as cooking, taking care of the infirm, or other tasks performed by the next generation of humanoid robots. More specifically, unlike the previous art, the present disclosure provides the following distinctive features. First, a potentially very large library of pre-defined/pre-leamed sensing-and-action sequences called minimanipulations. Second, each mini-manipulation encodes preconditions required for the sensing-and-action sequences to produce successfully the desired functional results (i.e. the postconditions) with a well-defined probability of success (e.g. 100% or 97% depending on the complexity and difficulty of the minimanipulation). Third, each minimanipulation references a set of variables whose values may be set a-priori or via sensing operations, before executing the minimanipulation actions. Fourth, each minimanipulation changes the value of a set of variables to represent the functional result (the postconditions) of executing the action sequence in the minimanipulation. Fifth, minimanipulations may be acquired by repeated observation of a human tutor (e.g. an expert chef) to determine the sensing-and-action sequence, and to determine the range of acceptable values for the variables. Sixth, minimanipulations may be composed into larger units to perform end-to-end tasks, such as preparing a meal, or cleaning up a room. These larger units are multistage applications of minimanipulations either in a strict sequence, in parallel, or respecting a partial order wherein some steps must occur before others, but not in a total ordered sequence (e.g. to prepare a given dish, three ingredients need to be combined in exact amounts into a mixing bowl, and then mixed; the order of putting each ingredient into the bowl is not constrained, but all must be placed before mixing). Seventh, the assembly of minimanipulations into end-to-end-tasks is performed by robotic planning, taking into account the preconditions and postconditions of the component minimanipulations. Eighth, case-based reasoning wherein observation of humans performing end-to- end tasks, or other robots doing so, or the same robot's past experience can be used to acquire a library of reusable robotic plans form cases (specific instances of performing an end-to-end task), both successful ones to replicate, and unsuccessful ones to learn what to avoid.
[0017] In a first aspect of the present disclosure, the robotic apparatus performs a task by replicating a human-skill operation, such as food preparation, playing piano, or painting, by accessing one or more libraries of minimanipulations. The replication process of the robotic apparatus emulates the transfer of a human's intelligence or skill set through a pair of hands, such as how a chef uses a pair of hands to prepare a particular dish; or a piano maestro playing a master piano piece through his or her pair of hands (and perhaps through the feet and body motions, as well). In a second aspect of the present disclosure, the robotic apparatus comprises a humanoid for home applications where the humanoid is designed to provide a programmable or customizable psychological, emotional, and/or functional comfortable robot, and thereby providing pleasure to the user. In a third aspect of the present disclosure, one or more minimanipulation libraries are created and executed as, first, one or more general minimanipulation libraries, and second, as one or more application specific minimanipulation libraries. One or more general minimanipulation libraries are created based on the elemental parameters and the degrees of freedom of a humanoid or a robotic apparatus. The humanoid or the robotic apparatus are programmable, so that the one or more general minimanipulation libraries can be programmed or customized to become one or more application specific minimanipulation libraries specific tailored to the user's request in the operational capabilities of the humanoid or the robotic apparatus.
[0018] Some embodiments of the present disclosure are directed to the technical features relating to the ability of being able to create complex robotic humanoid movements, actions and interactions with tools and the environment by automatically building movements for the humanoid, actions, and behaviors of the humanoid based on a set of computer-encoded robotic movement and action primitives. The primitives are defined by motion/actions of articulated degrees of freedom that range in complexity from simple to complex, and which can be combined in any form in serial/parallel fashion. These motion-primitives are termed to be Minimanipulations (MMs) and each MM has a clear time- indexed command input-structure, and output behavior-/performance-profile that are intended to achieve a certain function. MMs can range from the simple ('index a single finger joint by 1 degree') to the more involved (such as 'grab the utensil') to the even more complex ('fetch the knife and cut the bread') to the fairly abstract ('play the 1st bar of Schubert's piano concerto # ).
[0019] Thus, MMs are software-based and represented by input and output data sets and inherent processing algorithms and performance descriptors, akin to individual programs with input/output data files and subroutines, contained within individual run-time source-code, which when compiled generates object-code that can be compiled and collected within various different software libraries, termed as a collection of various Minimanipulation-Libraries (MMLs). MMLs can be grouped in to multiple groupings, whether these be associated to (i) particular hardware elements (finger/hand, wrist, arm, torso, foot, legs, etc.), (ii) behavioral elements (contacting, grasping, handling, etc.), or even (iii) application-domains (cooking, painting, playing a musical instrument, etc.). Furthermore, within each of these groupings, MMLs can be arranged based on multiple levels (simple to complex) relating to the complexity of behavior desired.
[0020] It should thus be understood that the concept of Minimanipulation (MM) (definitions and associations, measurement and control variables and their combinations and value-usage and - modification, etc.) and its implementation through usage of multiple MMLs in a near infinite combination, relates to the definition and control of basic behaviors (movements and interactions) of one or more degrees of freedom (movable joints under actuator control) at levels ranging from a single joint (knuckle, etc.) to combinations of joints (fingers and hand, arm, etc.) to ever higher degree of freedom systems (torso, upper-body, etc.) in a sequence and combination that achieves a desirable and successful movement sequence in free space and achieves a desirable degree of interaction with the real world so as to be able to enact a desirable function or output by the robot system, on and with, the surrounding world via tools, utensils, and other items.
[0021] Examples for the above definition can range from (i) a simple command sequence for a digit to flick a marble along a table, through (ii) stirring a liquid in a pot using a utensil, to (iii) playing a piece of music on an instrument (violin, piano, harp, etc.). The basic notion is that MMs are represented at multiple levels by a set of MM commands executed in sequence and in parallel at successive points in time, and together create a movement and action/interaction with the outside world to arrive at a desirable function (stirring the liquid, striking the bow on the violin, etc.) to achieve a desirable outcome (cooking pasta sauce, playing a piece of Bach concerto, etc.).
[0022] The basic elements of any low-to-high MM sequence comprise movements for each subsystem, and combinations thereof are described as a set of commanded positions/velocities and forces/torques executed by one or more articulating joints under actuator power, in such a sequence as required. Fidelity of execution is guaranteed through a closed-loop behavior described within each MM sequence and enforced by local and global control algorithms inherent to each articulated joint controller and higher-level behavioral controllers.
[0023] Implementation of the above movements (described by articulating joint positions and velocities) and environment interactions (described by joint/interface torques and forces) is achieved by having computer playback desirable values for all required variables (positions/velocities and forces/torques) and feeding these to a controller system that faithfully implements them on each joint as a function of time at each time step. These variables and their sequence and feedback loops (hence not just data files, but also control programs), to ascertain the fidelity of the commanded movement/interactions, are all described in data-files that are combined into multi-level MMLs, which can be accessed and combined in multiple ways to allow a humanoid robot to execute multiple actions, such as cooking a meal, playing a piece of classical music on a piano, lifting an infirm person into/out-of a bed, etc. There are MMLs that describe simple rudimentary movement/interactions, which are then used as building-blocks for ever higher-level MMLs that describe ever-higher levels of manipulation, such as 'grasp', 'lift', 'cut' to higher level primitives, such as 'stir liquid in pot'/'pluck harp-string to g-flat' or even high-level actions, such as 'make a vinaigrette dressing'/'paint a rural Brittany summer landscape'/'play Bach's Piano-concerto #1', etc. Higher level commands are simply a combination towards a sequence of serial/parallel lower- and mid-level MM primitives that are executed along a common timed stepped sequence, which is overseen by a combination of a set of planners running sequence/path/interaction profiles with feedback controllers to ensure the required execution fidelity (as defined in the output data contained within each MM sequence).
[0024] The values for the desirable positions/velocities and forces/torques and their execution playback sequence(s) can be achieved in multiple ways. One possible way is through watching and distilling the actions and movements of a human executing the same task, and distilling from the observation data (video, sensors, modeling software, etc.) the necessary variables and their values as a function of time and associating them with different minimanipulations at various levels by using specialized software algorithms to distill the required MM data (variables, sequences, etc.) into various types of low-to-high MMLs. This approach would allow a computer program to automatically generate the MMLs and define all sequences and associations automatically without any human involvement.
[0025] Another way would be (again by way of an automated computer-controlled process employing specialized algorithms) to learn from online data (videos, pictures, sound logs, etc.) how to build a required sequence of actionable sequences using existing low-level MMLs to build the proper sequence and combinations to generate a task-specific MML.
[0026] Yet another way, although most certainly more (time-) inefficient and less cost-effective, might be for a human programmer to assemble a set of low-level MM primitives to create an ever- higher level set of actions/sequences in a higher-level MML to achieve a more complex task-sequence, again composed of pre-existing lower-level MMLs.
[0027] Modification and improvements to individual variables (meaning joint position/velocities and torques/forces at each incremental time-interval and their associated gains and combination algorithms) and the motion/interaction sequences are also possible and can be effected in many different ways. It is possible to have learning algorithms monitor each and every motion/interaction sequence and perform simple variable-perturbations to ascertain outcome to decide on if/how/when/what variable(s) and sequence(s) to modify in order to achieve a higher level of execution fidelity at levels ranging from low- to high-levels of various MMLs. Such a process would be fully automatic and allow for updated data sets to be exchanged across multiple platforms that are interconnected, thereby allowing for massively parallel and cloud-based learning via cloud computing.
[0028] Advantageously, the robotic apparatus in a standardized robotic kitchen has the capabilities to prepare a wide array of cuisines from around the world through a global network and database access, as compared to a chef who may specialize in one type of cuisine. The standardized robotic kitchen also is able to capture and record favorite food dishes for replication by the robotic apparatus whenever desired to enjoy the food dish without the repetitive process of laboring to prepare the same dish repeatedly.
[0029] The structures and methods of the present disclosure are disclosed in detail in the description below. This summary does not purport to define the disclosure. The disclosure is defined by the claims. These and other embodiments, features, aspects, and advantages of the disclosure will become better understood with regard to the following description, appended claims, and accompanying drawings.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0030] The disclosure will be described with respect to specific embodiments thereof, and reference will be made to the drawings, in which:
[0031] FIG. 1 is a system diagram illustrating an overall robotic food preparation kitchen with hardware and software in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0032] FIG. 2 is a system diagram illustrating a first embodiment of a food robot cooking system that includes a chef studio system and a household robotic kitchen system in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0033] FIG. 3 is system diagram illustrating one embodiment of the standardized robotic kitchen for preparing a dish by replicating a chef's recipe process, techniques, and movements in accordance with the present disclosure. [0034] FIG. 4 is a system diagram illustrating one embodiment of a robotic food preparation engine for use with the computer in the chef studio system and the household robotic kitchen system in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0035] FIG. 5A is a block diagram illustrating a chef studio recipe-creation process in accordance with the present disclosure; FIG. 5B is block diagram illustrating one embodiment of a standardized teach/playback robotic kitchen in accordance with the present disclosure; FIG. 5C is a block diagram illustrating one embodiment of a recipe script generation and abstraction engine in accordance with the present disclosure; and FIG. 5D is a block diagram illustrating software elements for object-manipulation in the standardized robotic kitchen in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0036] FIG. 6 is a block diagram illustrating a multimodal sensing and software engine architecture in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0037] FIG. 7 A is a block diagram illustrating a standardized robotic kitchen module used by a chef in accordance with the present disclosure; FIG. 7B is a block diagram illustrating the standardized robotic kitchen module with a pair of robotic arms and hands in accordance with the present disclosure; FIG. 7C is a block diagram illustrating one embodiment of a physical layout of the standardized robotic kitchen module used by a chef in accordance with the present disclosure; FIG. 7D is a block diagram illustrating one embodiment of a physical layout of the standardized robotic kitchen module used by a pair of robotic arms and hands in accordance with the present disclosure; FIG. 7E is a block diagram depicting the stepwise flow and methods to ensure that there are control or verification points during the recipe replication process based on the recipe-script when executed by the standardized robotic kitchen in accordance with the present disclosure; and FIG. 7F depicts a block diagram of a cloud-based recipe software for facilitating between the chef studio, the robotic kitchen and other sources.
[0038] FIG. 8A is a block diagram illustrating one embodiment of a conversion algorithm module between the chef movements and the robotic mirror movements in accordance with the present disclosure; FIG. 8B is a block diagram illustrating a pair of gloves with sensors worn by the chef for capturing and transmitting the chef's movements; FIG. 8C is a block diagram illustrating robotic cooking execution based on the captured sensory data from the chef's gloves in accordance with the present disclosure; FIG. 8D is a graphical diagram illustrating dynamically stable and dynamically unstable curves relative to equilibrium; FIG. 8E is a sequence diagram illustrating the process of food preparation that requires a sequence of steps that are referred to as stages in accordance with the present disclosure; FIG. 8F is a graphical diagram illustrating the probability of overall success as a function of the number of stages to prepare a food dish in accordance with the present disclosure; and FIG. 8G is a block diagram illustrating the execution of a recipe with multi-stage robotic food preparation with minimanipulations and action primitives.
[0039] FIG. 9A is a block diagram illustrating an example of robotic hand and wrist with haptic vibration, sonar, and camera sensors for detecting and moving a kitchen tool, an object, or a piece of kitchen equipment in accordance with the present disclosure; FIG. 9B is a block diagram illustrating a pan-tilt head with sensor camera coupled to a pair of robotic arms and hands for operation in the standardized robotic kitchen in accordance with the present disclosure; FIG. 9C is a block diagram illustrating sensor cameras on the robotic wrists for operation in the standardized robotic kitchen in accordance with the present disclosure; FIG. 9D is a block diagram illustrati ng an eye-in-hand on the robotic hands for operation in the standardized robotic kitchen in accordance with the present disclosure; and FIGS. 9E-I are pictorial diagrams illustrating aspects of deformable palm in a robotic hand in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0040] FIG. 10A is block diagram illustrating examples of chef recording devices which a chef wears in the robotic kitchen environment for recording and capturing his or her movements during the food preparation process for a specific recipe; and FIG. 10B is a flow diagram illustrating one embodiment of the process in evaluating the captured chef's motions with robot poses, motions, and forces in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0041] FIG. 11 is block diagram illustrating a side view of a robotic arm embodiment for use in the household robotic kitchen system in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0042] FIGS. 12A-C are block diagrams illustrating one embodiment of a kitchen handle for use with the robotic hand with the palm in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0043] FIG. 13 is a pictorial diagram illustrating an example robotic hand with tactile sensors and distributed pressure sensors in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0044] FIG. 14 is a pictorial diagram illustrating an example of a sensing costume for a chef to wear at the robotic cooking studio in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0045] FIGS. 15A-B are pictorial diagrams illustrating one embodiment of a three-fingered haptic glove with sensors for food preparation by the chef and an example of a three-fingered robotic hand with sensors in accordance with the present disclosure; FIG. 15C is a block diagram illustrating one example of the interplay and interactions between a robotic arm and a robotic hand in accordance with the present disclosure; and FIG. 15D is a block diagram illustrating the robotic hand using the standardized kitchen handle that is attachable to a cookware head and the robotic arm attachable to kitchen ware in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0046] FIG. 16 is a block diagram illustrating the creation module of a minimanipulation database library and the execution module of the minimanipulation database library in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0047] FIG. 17A is a block diagram illustrating a sensing glove used by a chef to execute standardized operating movements in accordance with the present disclosure; and FIG. 17B is a block diagram illustrating a database of standardized operating movements in the robotic kitchen module in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0048] FIG. 18A is a graphical diagram illustrating that each of the robotic hand coated with a artificial human-like soft-skin glove in accordance with the present disclosure; FIG . 18B is a block diagram illustrating robotic hands coated with artificial human-like skin gloves to execute high-level minimanipulations based on a library database of minimanipulations, which have been predefined and stored in the library database, in accordance with the present disclosure; FIG. 18C is a graphical diagram illustrating three types of taxonomy of manipulation actions for food preparation in accorda nce with the present disclosure; and FIG. 18D is a flow diagram illustrating one embodiment on taxonomy of manipulation actions for food preparation in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0049] FIG. 19 is a block diagram illustrating the creation of a minimanipulation that results in cracking an egg with a knife, an example in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0050] FIG. 20 is a block diagram illustrating an example of recipe execution for a minimanipulation with real-time adjustment in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0051] FIG. 21 is a flow diagram illustrating the software process to capture a chef's food preparation movements in a standardized kitchen module in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0052] FIG. 22 is a flow diagram illustrating the software process for food preparation by robotic apparatus in the robotic standardized kitchen module in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0053] FIG. 23 is a flow diagram illustrating one embodiment of the software process for creating, testing, validating, and storing the various parameter combinations for a minimanipulation system in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0054] FIG. 24 is a flow diagram illustrating one embodiment of the software process for creating the tasks for a minimanipulation system in accordance with the present disclosure. [0055] FIG. 25 is a flow diagram illustrating the process of assigning and utilizing a library of standardized kitchen tools, standardized objects, and standardized equipment in a standardized robotic kitchen in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0056] FIG. 26 is a flow diagram illustrating the process of identifying a non-standardized object with three-dimensional modeling in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0057] FIG. 27 is a flow diagram illustrating the process for testing and learning of minimanipulations in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0058] FIG. 28 is a flow diagram illustrating the process for robotic arms quality control and alignment function process in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0059] FIG. 29 is a table illustrating a database library structure of minimanipulations objects for use in the standardized robotic kitchen in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0060] FIG. 30 is a table illustrating a database library structure of standardized objects for use in the standardized robotic kitchen in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0061] FIG. 31 is a pictorial diagram illustrating a robotic hand for conducting quality check of fish in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0062] FIG. 32 is a pictorial diagram illustrating a robotic sensor head for conducting quality check in a bowl in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0063] FIG. 33 is a pictorial diagram illustrating a detection device or container with a sensor for determining the freshness and quality of food in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0064] FIG. 34 is a system diagram illustrating an online analysis system for determining the freshness and quality of food in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0065] FIG. 35 is a block diagram illustrating pre-filled containers with programmable dispenser control in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0066] FIG. 36 is a block diagram illustrating recipe structure and process for food preparation in the standardized robotic kitchen in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0067] FIGS. 37A-C a re block diagrams illustrating recipe search menus for use in the standardized robotic kitchen in accordance with the present disclosure; FIG. 37D is a screen shot of a menu with the option to create and submit a recipe in accordance with the present disclosure; FIG. 37E is a screen shot depicting the types of ingredients; and FIGS. 37F-N are flow diagrams illustrating one embodiment of the food preparation user interface with functional capabilities including a recipe filter, an ingredient filter, an equipment filter, an account and social network access, a personal partner page, a shopping cart page, and the information on the purchased recipe, registration setting, and creation of a recipe in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0068] FIG. 38 is a block diagram illustrating a recipe search menu by selecting fields for use in the standardized robotic kitchen in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0069] FIG. 39 is a block diagram illustrating the standardized robotic kitchen with an a ugmented sensor for three-dimensional tracking and reference data generation in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0070] FIG. 40 is a block diagram illustrating the standardized robotic kitchen with multi ple sensors for creating real-time three-dimensional modeling in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0071] FIGS. 41A-L a re block diagrams illustrating the various embodiments and features of the standardized robotic kitchen in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0072] FIG. 42A is block diagra m illustrating a top plan view of the standardized robotic kitchen in accordance with the present disclosure; and FIG. 42B is a block diagram illustrating a perspective plan view of the standardized robotic kitchen in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0073] FIGS. 43A-B are block diagrams illustrating a first embodiment of the kitchen module frame with a utomatic transparent doors in the standardized robotic kitchen in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0074] FIGS. 44A-B are block diagrams illustrating a second embodiment of the kitchen module frame with automatic transparent doors in the standardized robotic kitchen in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0075] FIG. 45 is a block diagram illustrating the standardized robotic kitchen with a telescopic actuator in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0076] FIG. 46A is a block diagram illustrating a front view of the standardized robotic kitchen with a pair of fixed robotic arms with no moving railings in accordance with the present disclosure; FIG. 46B is a block diagram illustrating an angular view of the standardized robotic kitchen with a pair of fixed robotic arms with no moving railings in accordance with the present disclosure; a nd FIGS. 46C-G are block diagrams illustrating examples of various dimensions in the sta ndardized robotic kitchen with a pair of fixed robotic arms with no moving railings in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0077] FIG. 47 is a block diagram illustrating a program storage system for use with the standardized robotic kitchen in accordance with the present disclosure. [0078] FIG. 48 is a block diagram illustrating an elevation view of the program storage system for use with the standardized robotic kitchen in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0079] FIG. 49 is a block diagram illustrating an elevation view of ingredient access contai ners for use with the standardized robotic kitchen in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0080] FIG. 50 is a block diagram illustrating an ingredient quality-monitoring dashboard associated with ingredient access containers for use with the standardized robotic kitchen in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0081] FIG. 51 is a table illustrating a database library of recipe parameters in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0082] FIG. 52 is a flow diagram illustrating the process of one embodiment of recording a chefs food preparation process in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0083] FIG. 53 is a flow diagram illustrating the process of one embodiment of a robotic apparatus preparing a food dish in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0084] FIG. 54 is a flow diagram illustrating the process of one embodiment in the quality and function adjustment in obtaining the same (or substantially the same result) in a food dish preparation by a robotic relative to a chef in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0085] FIG. 55 is a flow diagram illustrating a first embodiment in the process of the robotic kitchen preparing a dish by replicating a chef's movements from a recorded software file in a robotic kitchen in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0086] FIG. 56 is a flow diagram illustrating the process of storage check-in and identification in the robotic kitchen in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0087] FIG. 57 is a flow diagram illustrating the process of storage checkout and cooking preparation in the robotic kitchen in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0088] FIG. 58 is a flow diagram illustrating one embodiment of an automated pre-cooking preparation process in the robotic kitchen in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0089] FIG. 59 is a flow diagram illustrating one embodiment of a recipe design and scripting process in the robotic kitchen in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0090] FIG. 60 is a flow diagram illustrating a subscription model for the user to purchase the robotic food preparation recipe in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0091] FIGS. 61A-B are flow diagrams illustrating the process of a recipe search and purchase subscription for a recipe commerce platform from a portal in accordance with the present disclosure. [0092] FIG. 62 is a flow diagram illustrating the creation of a robotic cooking recipe app on an app platform in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0093] FIG. 63 is a flow diagram illustrating the process of a user search, purchase, and subscription for a cooking recipe in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0094] FIGS. 64A-B are block diagrams illustrating an example of a predefined recipe search criterion in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0095] FIG. 65 is a block diagram illustrating some pre-defined containers in the robotic kitchen in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0096] FIG. 66 is a block diagram illustrating a first embodiment of a robotic restaurant kitchen module configured in a rectangular layout with multiple pairs of robotic hands for simultaneous food preparation processing in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0097] FIG. 67 is a block diagram illustrating a second embodiment of a robotic restaurant kitchen module configured in a U-shape layout with multiple pairs of robotic hands for simultaneous food preparation processing in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0098] FIG. 68 is a block diagram illustrating a second embodiment of the robotic food preparation system with sensory cookware and curves in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0099] FIG. 69 is a block diagram illustrating some physical elements of a robotic food preparation system in the second embodiment in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00100] FIG. 70 is a block diagram illustrating sensory cookware for a (smart) pan with real-time temperature sensors for use in the second embodiment in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00101] FIG. 71 is a graphical diagram illustrating the recorded temperature curve with multiple data points from the different sensors of the sensory cookware in the chef studio in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00102] FIG. 72 is a graphical diagram illustrating the recorded temperature and humidity curves from the sensory cookware in the chef studio for transmission to an operating control unit in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00103] FIG. 73 is a block diagram illustrating sensory cookware for cooking based on the data from a temperature curve for different zones on a pan in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00104] FIG. 74 is a block diagram illustrating sensory cookware of a (smart) oven with real-time temperature and 5umidity sensors for use in the second embodiment in accordance with the present disclosure. [00105] FIG. 75 is a block diagram illustrating a sensory cookware for a (smart) charcoal grill with real-time temperature sensors for use in the second embodiment in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00106] FIG. 76 is a block diagram illustrating sensory cookware for a (smart) faucet with speed, temperature and power control functions for use in the second embodiment in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00107] FIG. 77 is a block diagram illustrating a top plan view of a robotic kitchen with sensory cookware in the second embodiment in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00108] FIG. 78 is a block diagram illustrating a perspective view of a robotic kitchen with sensory cookware in the second embodiment in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00109] FIG. 79 is a flow diagram illustrating a second embodiment in the process of the robotic kitchen preparing a dish from one or more previously recorded parameter curves in a standardized robotic kitchen in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00110] FIG. 80 depicts one embodiment of the sensory data capturing process in the chef studio in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00111] FIG. 81 depicts the process and flow of a household robotic cooking process. The first step involves the user selecting a recipe and acquiring the digital form of the recipe in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00112] FIG. 82 is a block diagram illustrating a third embodiment of the robotic food preparation kitchen with a cooking operating control module, and a command and visual monitoring module in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00113] FIG. 83 is a block diagram illustrating a top plan view in the third embodiment of the robotic food preparation kitchen with robotic arm and hand motions in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00114] FIG. 84 is a block diagram illustrating a perspective view in the third embodiment of the robotic food preparation kitchen with robotic arm and hand motions in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00115] FIG. 85 is a block diagram illustrating a top plan view in the third embodiment of the robotic food preparation kitchen with a command and visual monitoring device in accordance with the present disclosure. [00116] FIG. 86 is a block diagram illustrating a perspective view in the third embodiment of the robotic food preparation kitchen with a command and visual monitoring device in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00117] FIG. 87A is a block diagram illustrating a fourth embodiment of the robotic food preparation kitchen with a robot in accordance with the present disclosure; FIG. 87B is a block diagram illustrating a top plan view in the fourth embodiment of the robotic food preparation kitchen with the humanoid robot in accordance with the present disclosure; and FIG. 87C is a block diagram illustrating a perspective plan view in the fourth embodiment of the robotic food prepa ration kitchen with the humanoid robot in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00118] FIG. 88 is a block diagram illustrating a robotic human-emulator electronic intellectual property (IP) library in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00119] FIG. 89 is a block diagram illustrating a robotic human emotion recognition engine in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00120] FIG. 90 is a flow diagram illustrating the process of a robotic human emotion engine in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00121] FIGS. 91A-C are flow diagrams illustrating the process of comparing a person's emotional profile against a population of emotional profiles with hormones, pheromones, and other parameters in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00122] FIG. 92A is a block diagram illustrating the emotional detection and analysis of a person's emotional state by monitoring a set of hormones, a set of pheromones, and other key parameters in accordance with the present disclosure; and FIG. 92B is a block diagram illustrating a robot assessing and learning about a person's emotional behavior in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00123] FIG. 93 is a block diagram illustrating a port device implanted in a person to detect and record the person's emotional profile in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00124] FIG. 94A is a block diagram illustrating a robotic human intelligence engine in accordance with the present disclosure; and FIG. 94B is a flow diagram illustrating the process of a robotic human intelligence engine in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00125] FIG. 95A is a block diagram illustrating a robotic painting system in accordance with the present disclosure; FIG. 95B is a block diagram illustrating the various components of a robotic painting system in accordance with the present disclosure; and FIG. 95C is a block diagram illustrating the robotic human-painting-skill replication engine in accordance with the present disclosure. [00126] FIG. 96A is a flow diagram illustrating the recording process of an artist at a painting studio in accordance with the present disclosure; and FIG. 96B is a flow diagram illustrating the replication process by a robotic painting system in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00127] FIG. 97A is block diagram illustrating an embodiment of a musician replication engine in accordance with the present disclosure; and FIG. 97B is block diagram illustrating the process of the musician replication engine in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00128] FIG. 98 is block diagram illustrating an embodiment of a nursing replication engine in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00129] FIGS. 99A-B are flow diagrams illustrating the process of the nursing replication engine in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00130] FIG. 100 is a block diagram illustrating the general applicability (or universal) of a robotic human-skill replication system with a creator recording system and a commercial robotic system in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00131] FIG. 101 is a software system diagram illustrating the robotic human-skill replication engine with various modules in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00132] FIG. 102 is a block diagram illustrating one embodiment of the robotic human-skill replication system in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00133] FIG. 103 is a block diagram illustrating a humanoid with controlling points for skill execution or replication process with standardized operating tools, standardized positions, and orientations, and standardized equipment in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00134] FIG. 104 is a simplified block diagram illustrating a humanoid replication program that replicates the recorded process of human-skill movements by tracking the activity of glove sensors on periodic time intervals in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00135] FIG. 105 is a block diagram illustrating the creator movement recording and humanoid replication in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00136] FIG. 106 depicts the overall robotic control platform for a general-purpose humanoid robot at as a high-level description of the functionality of the present disclosure.
[00137] FIG. 107 is a block diagram illustrating the schematic for generation, transfer, implementation, and usage of minimanipulation libraries as part of a humanoid application-task replication process in accordance with the present disclosure. [00138] FIG. 108 is a block diagram illustrating studio and robot-based sensory-Data input categories and types in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00139] FIG. 109 is a block diagram illustrating physical-/system-based minimanipulation libra ry action-based dual-arm and torso topology in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00140] FIG. 110 is a block diagram illustrating minimanipulation library manipulation-phase combinations and transitions for task-specific action-sequences in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00141] FIG. Ill is a block diagram illustrating one or more minimanipulation libraries, (generic and task-specific) building process from studio data in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00142] FIG. 112 is a block diagram illustrati ng robotic task-execution via one or more minimanipulation library data sets in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00143] FIG. 113 is a block diagram illustrating a schematic for automated minimanipulation para meter-set building engine in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00144] FIG. 114A is a block diagram illustrating a data-centric view of the robotic system in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00145] FIG. 114B is a block diagram illustrating examples of various minimanipulation data formats in the composition, linking, and conversion of minimanipulation robotic behavior data accordance with the present disclosure.
[00146] FIG. 115 is a block diagram illustrating the different levels of bidirectional abstractions between the robotic hardware technical concepts, the robotic software technical concepts, the robotic business concepts, and mathematical algorithms for carrying the robotic technical concepts in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00147] FIG. 116 is a block diagram illustrating a pair of robotic arms and hands, and each hand with five fingers in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00148] FIG. 117A is a block diagram illustrating one embodiment of a humanoid in accordance with the present disclosure; FIG. 117B is a block diagram illustrating the humanoid embodiment with gyroscopes and graphical data in accordance with the present disclosure; and FIG . 117C is graphical diagram illustrating the creator recording devices on a humanoid, including a body sensing suit, an arm exoskeleton, head gear, and sensing glove in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00149] FIG. 118 is a block diagram illustrating a robotic human-skill subject expert minimanipulation library in accordance with the present disclosure. [00150] FIG. 119 is a block diagram illustrating the creation process of an electronic library of general minimanipulations for replacing human-hand-skill movements in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00151] FIG. 120 is a block diagram illustrating performing a task by robot by execution in multiple stages with general minimanipulations in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00152] FIG. 121 is a block diagram illustrating the real-time parameter adjustment during the execution phase of minimanipulations in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00153] FIG. 122 is a block diagram illustrating a set of minimanipulations for making sushi in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00154] FIG. 123 is a block diagram illustrating a first minimanipulation of cutting fish in the set of minimanipulations for making sushi in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00155] FIG. 124 is a block diagram illustrating a second minimanipulation of taking rice from a container in the set of minimanipulations for making sushi in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00156] FIG. 125 is a block diagram illustrating a third minimanipulation of picking up a piece of fish in the set of minimanipulations for making sushi in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00157] FIG. 126 is a block diagram illustrating a fourth minimanipulation of firming up the rice and fish into a desirable shape in the set of minimanipulations for making sushi in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00158] FIG. 127 is a block diagram illustrating a fifth minimanipulation of pressing the fish to hug the rice in the set of minimanipulations for making sushi in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00159] FIG. 128 is a block diagram illustrating a set of minimanipulations for playing piano that occur in any sequence or in any combination in parallel in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00160] FIG. 129 is a block diagram illustrating a first minimanipulation for the right hand and a second minimanipulation for the left hand of the set of minimanipulations that occur in parallel for playing piano from the set of minimanipulations for playing piano in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00161] FIG. 130 is a block diagram illustrating a third minimanipulation for the right foot and a fourth minimanipulation for the left foot of the set of minimanipulations that occur in parallel from the set of minimanipulations for playing piano in accordance with the present disclosure. [00162] FIG. 131 is a block diagram illustrating a fifth minimanipulation for moving the body that occur in parallel with one or more other minimanipulations from the set of minimanipulations for playing piano in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00163] FIG. 132 is a block diagram illustrating a set of minimanipulations for humanoid to walk that occur in any sequence, or in any combination in parallel in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00164] FIG. 133 is a block diagram illustrating a first minimanipulation of stride pose with the right leg in the set of minimanipulations for humanoid to walk in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00165] FIG. 134 is a block diagram illustrating a second minimanipulation of squash pose with the right leg in the set of minimanipulations for humanoid to walk in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00166] FIG. 135 is a block diagram illustrating a third minimanipulation of passing pose with the right leg in the set of minimanipulations for humanoid to walk in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00167] FIG. 136 is a block diagram illustrating a fourth minimanipulation of stretch pose with the right leg in the set of minimanipulations for humanoid to walk in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00168] FIG. 137 is a block diagram illustrating a fifth minimanipulation of stride pose with the left leg in the set of minimanipulations for humanoid to walk in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00169] FIG. 138 is a block diagram illustrating a robotic nursing care module with a three- dimensional vision system in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00170] FIG. 139 is a block diagram illustrating a robotic nursing care module with standardized cabinets in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00171] FIG. 140 is a block diagram illustrating a robotic nursing care module with one or more standardized storages, a standardized screen, and a standardized wardrobe in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00172] FIG. 141 is a block diagram illustrating a robotic nursing care module with a telescopic body with a pair of robotic arms and a pair of robotic hands in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00173] FIG. 142 is a block diagram illustrating a first example of executing a robotic nursing care module with various movements to aid an elderly person in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00174] FIG. 143 is a block diagram illustrating a second exa mple of executing a robotic nursing care module with loading and unloading a wheel chair in accordance with the present disclosure. [00175] FIG. 144 is a pictorial diagram illustrating a humanoid robot acting as a facilitator between two human sources in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00176] FIG. 145 is a pictorial diagram illustrating a humanoid robot serving as a therapist on person B while under the direct control of person A in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00177] FIG. 146 is a block diagram illustrating the first embodiment in the placement of motors relative to the robotic hand and arm with full torque require moving the arm in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00178] FIG. 147 is a block diagram illustrating the second embodiment in the placement of motors relative to the robotic hand and arm with a reduced torque require moving the arm in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00179] FIG. 148A is a pictorial diagram illustrating a front view of robotic arms extending from an overhead mount for use in a robotic kitchen with an oven in accordance with the present disclosure; and FIG. 148B is a pictorial diagram illustrating a top view of robotic arms extending from an overhead mount for use in a robotic kitchen with an oven in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00180] FIG. 149A is a pictorial diagram illustrating a front view of robotic arms extending from an overhead mount for use in a robotic kitchen with additional spacing in accordance with the present disclosure; and FIG. 149B is a pictorial diagram illustrating a top view of robotic arms extending from an overhead mount for use in a robotic kitchen with additional spacing in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00181] FIG. 150A is a pictorial diagram illustrating a front view robotic arms extending from an overhead mount for use in a robotic kitchen with sliding storages in accordance with the present disclosure; and FIG. 150B is a pictorial diagram illustrating a top view robotic arms extending from an overhead mount for use in a robotic kitchen with sliding storages in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00182] FIG. 151A is a pictorial diagram illustrating a front view robotic arms extending from an overhead mount for use in a robotic kitchen with sliding storages having shelves in accordance with the present disclosure; and FIG. 151B is a pictorial diagram illustrating a top view robotic arms extending from an overhead mount for use in a robotic kitchen with sliding storages having shelves in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00183] FIGS. 152-161 are pictorial diagrams of the various embodiments of robotic gripping options in accordance with the present disclosure. [00184] FIGS. 162A-S are pictorial diagrams illustrating a cookware handle suitable for the robotic hand to attach to various kitchen utensils and cookware in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00185] FIG. 163 is a pictorial diagram of a blender portion for use in the robotic kitchen in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00186] FIGS. 164A-C are pictorial diagrams illustrating the various kitchen holders for use in the robotic kitchen in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00187] FIGS. 165A-V are block diagram illustrating examples of manipulations but do not limit the present disclosure.
[00188] FIGS. 166A-L illustrate sample types of kitchen equipment in Table A in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00189] FIGS. 167A-167V illustrate sample types of ingredients in Table B in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00190] FIGS. 168A-168Z illustrate sample lists of food preparation, methods, equipment, and cuisine in Table C in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00191] FIG. 169A-Z15 illustrate a variety of sample bases in Table C in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00192] FIGS. 170A-170C illustrate sample types of cuisine and food dishes in Table D in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00193] FIGS. 171A-E illustrate one embodiment of robotic food preparation system in Table E in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00194] FIGS. 172A-C illustrate sample minimanipulations that a robot executes including a robot making sushi, a robot playing piano, a robot moving a robot by moving from a first position to a second position, a robot jumping from a first position to a second position, a humanoid taking a book from book shelf, a humanoid bringing a bag from a first position to a second position, a robot opening a jar, and a robot putting food in a bowl for a cat to consume in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00195] FIGS. 173A-I illustrate sample multi-level minimanipulations for a robot to perform including measurement, lavage, supplemental oxygen, maintenance of body temperature, catheterization, physiotherapy, hygienic procedures, feeding, sampling for analyses, care of stoma and catheters, care of a wound, and methods of administering drugs in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00196] FIG. 174 illustrates sample multi-level minimanipulations for a robot to perform intubation, resuscitation/cardiopulmonary resuscitation, replenishment of blood loss, hemostasis, emergency manipulation on trachea, fracture of bone, and wound closure in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00197] FIG. 175 illustrates a list of sa mple medical equipment and medical device list in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00198] FIGS. 176A-B illustrate a sample nursery service with minimanipulations in accordance with the present disclosure
[00199] FIG. 177 illustrates another equipment list in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00200] FIG. 178 is a block diagram illustrating an example of a computer device on which computer- executable instructions perform the robotic methodologies discussed herein and which may be installed and executed.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[00201] A description of structural embodiments and methods of the present disclosure is provided with reference to FIGS. 1-178. It is to be understood that there is no intention to limit the disclosure to the specifically disclosed embodiments but that the disclosure may be practiced using other features, elements, methods, and embodiments. Like elements in various embodiments are commonly referred to with like reference numerals.
[00202] The following definitions apply to the elements and steps described herein. These terms may likewise be expanded upon.
[00203] Abstraction Data - refers to the abstraction recipe of utility for machine-execution, which has many other data-elements that a machine needs to know for proper execution and replication. This so-called meta-data, or additional data corresponding to a particular step in the cooking process, whether it be direct sensor-data (clock-time, water-temperature, camera-image, utensil or ingredient used, etc.) or data generated through interpretation or abstraction of larger data-sets (such as a 3- Dimensional range cloud from a laser used to extract the location and types of objects in the image, overlaid with texture and color maps from a camera-picture, etc.). The meta-data is time-stamped and used by the robotic kitchen to set, control, and monitor all processes and associated methods and equipment needed at every point in time as it steps through the sequence of steps in the recipe.
[00204] Abstraction Recipe - refers to a representation of a chef's recipe, which a human knows as represented by the use of certain ingredients, in certain sequences, prepared and combined through a sequence of processes and methods, as well as skills of the human chef. An abstraction recipe used by a machine for execution in an automated way requires different types of classifications and sequences. While the overall steps carried out are identical to those of the human chef, the abstraction recipe of utility to the robotic kitchen requires that additional meta-data be a part of every step in the recipe. Such meta-data includes the cooking time and variables, such as temperature (and its variations over time), oven-setting, tool/equipment used, etc. Basically a machine-executable recipe-script needs to have all possible measured variables of import to the cooking process (all measured and stored while the human chef was preparing the recipe in the chef studio) correlated to time, both overall and that within each process-step of the cooking-sequence. Hence, the abstraction recipe is a representation of the cooking steps mapped into a machine-readable representation or domain, which takes the required process from the human-domain to that of the machine-understandable and machine-executable domain through a set of logical abstraction steps.
[00205] Acceleration - refers to the maximum rate of speed-change at which a robotic arm can accelerate around an axis or along a space-trajectory over a short distance.
[00206] Accuracy - refers to how closely a robot can reach a commanded position. Accuracy is determined by the difference between the absolute positions of the robot compared to the comma nded position. Accuracy can be improved, adjusted, or calibrated with external sensing, such as sensors on a robotic hand or a real-time three-dimensional model using multiple (multi-mode) sensors.
[00207] Action Primitive - in one embodiment, the term refers to an indivisible robotic action, such as moving the robotic apparatus from location XI to location X2, or sensing the distance from an object for food preparation without necessarily obtaining a functional outcome. In another embodiment, the term refers to an indivisible robotic action in a sequence of one or more such units for accomplishing a minimanipulation. These are two aspects of the same definition.
[00208] Automated Dosage System - refers to dosage containers in a standardized kitchen module where a particular size of food chemical compounds (such as salt, sugar, pepper, spice, any kind of liquids, such as water, oil, essences, ketchup, etc.) is released upon application.
[00209] Automated Storage and Delivery System - refers to storage containers in a standardized kitchen module that maintain a specific temperature and humidity for storing food; each storage conta iner is assigned a code (e.g., a bar code) for the robotic kitchen to identify and retrieve where a particula r storage container delivers the food contents stored therein.
[00210] Data Cloud - refers to a collection of sensor or data-based numerical measurement values from a particular space (three-dimensional laser/acoustic range measurement, RGB-values from a camera image, etc.) collected at certain intervals and aggregated based on a multitude of relationships, such as time, location, etc.
[00211] Degree of Freedom ("DOF") - refers to a defined mode and/or direction in which a mechanical device or system can move. The number of degrees of freedom is equal to the total number of independent displacements or aspects of motion. The total number of degrees of freedom is doubled for two robotic arms.
[00212] Edge Detection - refers to a software-based computer program(s) capable of identifying the edges of multiple objects that may be overlapping in a two-dimensional-image of a camera yet successfully identifying their boundaries to aid in object identification and planning for grasping and handling.
[00213] Equilibrium Value - refers to the target position of a robotic appendage, such as a robotic arm where the forces acting upon it are in equilibrium, i.e. there is no net force and thus no net movement.
[00214] Execution Sequence Planner - refers to a software-based computer program(s) capable of creating a sequence of execution scripts or commands for one or more elements or systems capable of being computer controlled, such as arm(s), dispensers, appliances, etc.
[00215] Food Execution Fidelity - refers to a robotic kitchen, which is intended to replicate the recipe-script generated in the chef studio by watching, measuring, and understanding the steps, variables, methods, and processes of the human chef, thereby trying to emulate his/her techniques and skills. The fidelity of how close the execution of the dish-preparation comes to that of the human-chef is measured by how close the robotically-prepared dish resembles the human-prepared dish as measured by a variety of subjective elements, such as consistency, color, taste, etc. The notion is that the more closely the dish prepared by the robotic kitchen is to that prepared by the human chef, the higher the fidelity of the replication process.
[00216] Food Preparation Stage (also referred to as "Cooking Stage") - refers to a combination, either sequential or in parallel, of one or more minimanipulations including action primitives, and computer instructions for controlling the various kitchen equipment and appliances in the standardized kitchen module. One or more food preparation stages collectively represent the entire food preparation process for a particular recipe.
[00217] Geometric Reasoning - refers to a software-based computer program(s) capable of using a two-dimensional (2D)/three-dimensional (3D) surface, and/or volumetric data to reason as to the actual shape and size of a particular volume. The ability to determine or utilize boundary information also allows for inferences as to the start and end of a particular geometric element and the number present in an image or model.
[00218] Grasp Reasoning - refers to a software- based computer program(s) capable of relying on geometric and physical reasoning to plan a multi-contact (point/area/volume) interaction between a robotic end-effector (gripper, link, etc.), or even tools/utensils held by the end-effector, so as to successfully contact, grasp, and hold the object in order to manipulate it in a three-dimensional space.
[00219] Hardware Automation Device - fixed process device capable of executing pre-programmed steps in succession without the ability to modify any of them; such devices are used for repetitive motions that do not need any modulation.
[00220] Ingredient Management and Manipulation - refers to defining each ingredient in detail (including size, shape, weight, dimensions, characteristics, and properties), one or more real-time adjustments in the va riables associated with the particular ingredient that may differ from the previous stored ingredient details (such as the size of a fish fillet, the dimensions of an egg, etc.), and the process in executing the different stages for the manipulation movements to an ingredient.
[00221] Kitchen Module (or Kitchen Volume) - a standardized full-kitchen module with standardized sets of kitchen equipment, standardized sets of kitchen tools, standardized sets of kitchen handles, and standardized sets of kitchen containers, with predefined space and dimensions for storing, accessing, and operating each kitchen element in the standardized full-kitchen module. One objective of a kitchen module is to predefine as much of the kitchen equipment, tools, handles, containers, etc. as possible, so as to provide a relatively fixed kitchen platform for the movements of robotic arms and hands. Both a chef in the chef kitchen studio and a person at home with a robotic kitchen (or a person at a restaurant) uses the standardized kitchen module, so as to maximize the predictability of the kitchen hardware, while minimizing the risks of differentiations, variations, and deviations between the chef kitchen studio and a home robotic kitchen. Different embodiments of the kitchen module are possible, including a standalone kitchen module and an integrated kitchen module. The integrated kitchen module is fitted into a conventional kitchen area of a typical house. The kitchen module operates in at least two modes, a robotic mode and a normal (manual) mode.
[00222] Machine Learning - refers to the technology wherein a software component or program improves its performance based on experience and feedback. One kind of machine learning often used in robotics is reinforcement learning, where desira ble actions are rewarded and undesirable ones are penalized. Another kind is case-based learning, where previous solutions, e.g. sequences of actions by a human teacher or by the robot itself are remembered, together with any constraints or reasons for the solutions, and then are applied or reused in new settings. There are also additional kinds of machine learning, such as inductive and transductive methods.
[00223] Minimanipulation (MM) - generally, MM refers to one or more behaviors or task-executions in any number or combinations and at various levels of descriptive abstraction, by a robotic apparatus that executes commanded motion-sequences under sensor-driven computer-control, acting through one or more hardware-based elements and guided by one or more software-controllers at multiple levels, to achieve a required task-execution performance level to arrive at an outcome approaching an optimal level within an acceptable execution fidelity threshold. The acceptable fidelity threshold is task- dependent and therefore defined for each task (also referred to as "domain-specific application"). I n the absence of a task-specific threshold, a typical threshold would be .001 (0.1%) of optimal performance.
• In one embodiment from a robotic technology perspective, the term MM refers to a well- defined pre-programmed sequence of actuator actions and collection of sensory feedback in a robot's task-execution behavior, as defined by performance and execution parameters (variables, constants, controller-type and -behaviors, etc.), used in one or more low-to-high level control-loops to achieve desired motion/interaction behavior for one or more actuators ranging from individual actuations to a sequence of serial and/or parallel multi- actuator coordinated motions (position and velocity)/interactions (force and torque) to achieve a specific task with desirable performance metrics. MMs can be combined in various ways by combining lower-level MM behaviors in serial and/or parallel to achieve ever-higher and higher-level more-and-more complex application-specific task behaviors with an ever higher level of (task-descriptive) abstraction.
• In another embodiment from a software/mathematical perspective, the term MM refers to a combination (or a sequence) of one or more steps that accomplish a basic functional outcome within a threshold value of the optimal outcome (examples of threshold value as within 0.1, 0.01, 0.001, or 0.0001 of the optimal value with .001 as the preferred default). Each step can be an action primitive, corresponding to a sensing operation or an actuator movement, or another (smaller) MM, similar to a computer program comprised of basic coding steps and other computer programs that may stand alone or serve as sub-routines. For instance, a MM ca n be grasping an egg, comprised of the motor actions required to sense the location and orientation of the egg, then reaching out a robotic arm, moving the robotic fingers into the right configuration, and applying the correct delicate amount of force for grasping: all primitive actions. Another MM can be breaking-an-egg-with-a-knife, including the grasping MM with one robotic hand, followed by grasping-a-knife MM with the other hand, followed by the primitive action of striking the egg with the knife using a predetermined force at a predetermined location.
• High-Level Application-specific Task Behaviors - refers to behaviors that can be described in natural human-understandable language and are readily recognizable by a human as clear and necessary steps in accomplishing or achieving a high-level goal. It is understood that many other lower-level behaviors and actions/movements need to take place by a multitude of individually actuated and controlled degrees of freedom, some in serial and parallel or even cyclical fashion, in order to successfully achieve a higher-level task-specific goal. Higher-level behaviors are thus made up of multiple levels of low-level MMs in order to achieve more complex, task-specific behaviors. As an example, the command of playing on a harp the first note of the 1st bar of a particular sheet of music, presumes the note is known (i.e., g-flat), but now lower-level MMs have to take place involving actions by a multitude of joints to curl a particular finger, move the whole hand or shape the palm so as to bring the finger into contact with the correct string, and then proceed with the proper speed and movement to achieve the correct sound by plucking/strumming the cord. All these individual MMs of the finger and/or hand/palm in isolation can all be considered MMs at various low levels, as they are unaware of the overall goal (extracting a particular note from a specific instrument). While the task-specific action of playing a particular note on a given instrument so as to achieve the necessary sound, is clearly a higher-level application- specific task, as it is aware of the overall goal and need to interplay between behaviors/motions and is in control of all the lower-level MMs required for a successful completion. One could even go as far as defining playing a particular musical note as a lower-level MM to the overall higher-level applications-specific task behavior or command, spelling out the playing of an entire piano-concerto, where playing individual notes could each be deemed as low-level MM behaviors structured by the sheet music as the composer intended. • Low-Level Minimanipulation Behaviors - refers to movements that are elementary and required as basic building blocks for achieving a higher-level task-specific motion/movement or behavior. The low-level behavioral blocks or elements can be combined in one or more serial or parallel fashion to achieve a more complex medium or a higher-level behavior. As an example, curling a single finger at all finger joints is a low-level behavior, as it can be combined with curling all other fingers on the same hand in a certain sequence and triggered to start/stop based on contact/force-thresholds to achieve the higher-level behavior of grasping, whether this be a tool or a utensil. Hence, the higher-level task-specific behavior of grasping is made up of a serial/parallel combination of sensory-data driven low- level behaviors by each of the five fingers on a hand. All behaviors can thus be broken down into rudimentary lower levels of motions/movements, which when combined in certain fashion achieve a higher-level task behavior. The breakdown or boundary between low- and high-level behaviors can be somewhat arbitrary, but one way to think of it is that movements or actions or behaviors that humans tend to carry out without much conscious thinking (such as curling ones fingers around a tool/utensil until contact is made and enough contact-force is achieved) as part of a more human-language task-action (such as "grab the tool"), can and should be considered low-level. In terms of a machine-language execution language, all actuator-specific commands, which are devoid of higher-level task awareness, are certainly considered low-level behaviors.
[00224] Model Elements and Classification - refers to one or more software-based computer program(s) capable of understanding elements in a scene as being items that are used or needed in different parts of a task; such as a bowl for mixing and the need for a spoon to stir, etc. Multiple elements in a scene or a world-model may be classified into groupings allowing for faster planning and task-execution.
[00225] Motion Primitives - refers to motion actions that define different levels/domains of detailed action steps, e.g. a high-level motion primitive would be to grab a cup, and a low-level motion primitive would be to rotate a wrist by five degrees.
[00226] Multimodal Sensing Unit - refers to a sensing unit comprised of multiple sensors capable of sensing and detecting multiple modes or electromagnetic bands or spectra: particularly, capable of capturing three-dimensional position and/or motion information. The electromagnetic spectrum can range from low to high frequencies and does not need to be limited to that perceived by a human being. Additional modes might include, but are not limited to, other physical senses such as touch, smell, etc.
[00227] Number of Axes - three axes are required to reach any point in space. To fully control the orientation of the end of the arm (i.e. the wrist), three additional rotational axes (yaw, pitch, and roll) are required.
[00228] Parameters - refers to variables that can take numerical values or ranges of numerical values. Three kinds of parameters are particularly relevant: parameters in the instructions to a robotic device (e.g. the force or distance in an arm movement), user-settable parameters (e.g. prefers meat well done vs. medium), and chef-defined parameters (e.g. set oven temperature to 350F).
[00229] Parameter Adjustment - refers to the process of changing the values of parameters based on inputs. For instance changes in the parameters of instructions to the robotic device can be based on the properties (e.g. size, shape, orientation) of, but not limited to, the ingredients, position/orientation of kitchen tools, equipment, appliances, speed, and time duration of a minimanipulation.
[00230] Payload or Carrying Capacity - refers to how much weight a robotic arm can carry and hold (or even accelerate) against the force of gravity as a function of its endpoint location.
[00231] Physical Reasoning - refers to a software-based computer program(s) capable of relying on geometrically-reasoned data and using physical information (density, texture, typical geometry, and shape) to assist an inference-engine (program) to better model the object and also predict its behavior in the real world, particularly when grasped and/or manipulated/handled.
[00232] Raw Data - refers to all measured and inferred sensory-data and representation information that is collected as part of the chef-studio recipe-generation process while watching/monitoring a human chef preparing a dish. Raw data can range from a simple data-point such as clock-time, to oven temperature (over time), camera-imagery, three-dimensional laser-generated scene representation data, to appliances/equipment used, tools employed, ingredients (type and amount) dispensed and when, etc. All the information the studio-kitchen collects from its built-in sensors and stores in raw, time-stamped form, is considered raw data. Raw data is then used by other software processes to generate an even higher level of understanding and recipe-process understanding, turning raw data into additional time-stamped processed/interpreted data.
[00233] Robotic Apparatus - refers the set of robotic sensors and effectors. The effectors comprise one or more robotic arms and one or more robotic hands for operation in the standardized robotic kitchen. The sensors comprise cameras, range sensors, and force sensors (haptic sensors) that transmit their information to the processor or set of processors that control the effectors.
[00234] Recipe Cooking Process - refers to a robotic script containing abstract and detailed levels of instructions to a collection of programmable and hard-automation devices, to allow computer- controllable devices to execute a sequenced operation within its environment (e.g. a kitchen replete with ingredients, tools, utensils, and appliances).
[00235] Recipe Script - refers to a recipe script as a sequence in time containing a structure and a list of commands and execution primitives (simple to complex command software) that, when executed by the robotic kitchen elements (robot-arm, automated equipment, appliances, tools, etc.) in a given sequence, should result in the proper replication and creation of the same dish as prepared by the human chef in the studio-kitchen. Such a script is sequential in time and equivalent to the sequence employed by the human chef to create the dish, albeit in a representation that is suitable and understandable by the computer-controlled elements in the robotic kitchen.
[00236] Recipe Speed Execution - refers to managing a timeline in the execution of recipe steps in preparing a food dish by replicating a chefs movements, where the recipe steps include standardized food preparation operations (e.g., standardized cookware, standardized equipment, kitchen processors, etc.), MMs, and cooking of non-standardized objects.
[00237] Repeatability - refers to an acceptable preset margin in how accurately the robotic arms/hands can repeatedly return to a programmed position. If the technical specification in a control memory requires the robotic hand to move to a certain X-Y-Z position and within +/- 0.1 mm of that position, then the repeatability is measured for the robotic hands to return to within +/- 0.1 mm of the taught and desired/commanded position.
[00238] Robotic Recipe Script - refers to a computer-generated sequence of machine- understandable instructions related to the proper sequence of robotically/hard-automation execution of steps to mirror the required cooking steps in a recipe to arrive at the same end-product as if cooked by a chef.
[00239] Robotic Costume - External instrumented device(s) or clothing, such as gloves, clothing with camera-tractable markers, jointed exoskeleton, etc., used in the chef studio to monitor and track the movements and activities of the chef during all aspects of the recipe cooking process(es).
[00240] Scene Modeling - refers to a software-based computer program(s) capable of viewing a scene in one or more cameras' fields of view and being capable of detecting and identifying objects of importa nce to a particular task. These objects may be pre-taught and/or be part of a computer library with known physical attributes and usage-intent.
[00241] Smart Kitchen Cookware/Equipment - refers to an item of kitchen cookware (e.g., a pot or a pan) or an item of kitchen equipment (e.g., an oven, a grill, or a faucet) with one or more sensors that prepares a food dish based on one or more graphical curves (e.g., a temperature curve, a humidity curve, etc.).
[00242] Software Abstraction Food Engine - refers to a software engine that is defined as a collection of software loops or programs, acting in concert to process input data and create a certain desirable set of output data to be used by other software engines or an end-user through some form of textual or graphical output interface. An abstraction software engine is a software program(s) focused on taking a large and vast amount of input data from a known source in a particular domain (such as three-dimensional range measurements that form a data-cloud of three-dimensional measurements as seen by one or more sensors), and then processing the data to arrive at interpretations of the data in a different domain (such as detecting and recognizing a table-surface in a data-cloud based on data having the same vertical data value, etc.), in order to identify, detect, and classify data-readings as pertaini ng to an object in three-dimensional space (such as a table-top, cooking pot, etc.). The process of abstraction is basically defined as taking a large data set from one domain and inferring structure (such as geometry) in a higher level of space (abstracting data points), and then abstracting the inferences even further and identifying objects (pots, etc.) out of the abstraction data-sets to identify real-world elements in an image, which can then be used by other software engines to make additional decisions (handling/manipulation decisions for key objects, etc.). A synonym for "software abstraction engine" in this application could be also "software interpretation engine" or even "computer-software processing and interpretation algorithm".
[00243] Task Reasoning - refers to a software-based computer program(s) capable of analyzing a task-description and breaking it down into a sequence of multiple machine-executable (robot or hard- automation systems) steps, to achieve a particular end result defined in the task description.
[00244] Three-dimensional World Object Modeling and Understanding - refers to a software-based computer program(s) capable of using sensory data to create a time-varying three-dimensional model of all surfaces and volumes, to enable it to detect, identify, and classify objects within the same and understand their usage and intent. [00245] Torque Vector - refers to the torsion force upon a robotic appendage, including its direction and magnitude.
[00246] Volumetric Object Inference (Engine) - refers to a software-based computer program(s) capable of using geometric data and edge-information, as well as other sensory data (color, shape, texture, etc.), to allow for identification of three-dimensionality of one or more objects to aid in the object identification and classification process.
[00247] For additional information on replication by a robotic apparatus and MM library, see the pending US non-provisional patent application Ser. No. 14/627,900, entitled "Methods and Systems for Food Preparation in Robotic Cooking Kitchen".
[00248] FIG. 1 is a system diagram illustrating an overall robotics food preparation kitchen 10 with robotic hardware 12 and robotic software 14. The overall robotics food preparation kitchen 10 comprises a robotics food preparation hardware 12 and robotics food prepa ration software 14 that operate together to perform the robotics functions for food preparation. The robotic food preparation hardware 12 includes a computer 16 that controls the various operations and movements of a standardized kitchen module 18 (which generally operate in an instrumented environment with one or more sensors), multimodal three-dimensiona l sensors 20, robotic arms 22, robotic hands 24 and capturing gloves 26. The robotic food preparation software 14 operates with the robotics food preparation hardware 12 to capture a chef's movements in preparing a food dish and replicating the chef's movements via robotics arms and hands to obtain the same result or substantially the same result (e.g., taste the same, smell the same, etc.) of the food dish that would taste the same or substantially the same as if the food dish was prepared by a human chef.
[00249] The robotic food preparation software 14 includes the multimodal three-dimensional sensors 20, a capturing module 28, a calibration module 30, a conversion algorithm module 32, a replication module 34, a quality check module 36 with a three-dimensional vision system, a same result module 38, and a learning module 40. The capturing module 28 captures the movements of the chef as the chef prepares a food dish. The calibration module 30 calibrates the robotic arms 22 and robotic hands 24 before, during, and after the cooking process. The conversion a lgorithm module 32 is configured to convert the recorded data from a chef's movements collected in the chef studio into recipe modified data (or transformed data) for use in a robotic kitchen where robotic hands replicate the food preparation of the chef's dish. The replication module 34 is configured to replicate the chefs movements in a robotic kitchen. The quality check module 36 is configured to perform quality check functions of a food dish prepared by the robotic kitchen during, prior to, or after the food preparation process. The same result module 38 is configured to determine whether the food dish prepared by a pair of robotic arms and hands in the robotic kitchen would taste the same or substantially the same as if prepared by the chef. The learning module 40 is configured to provide learning capabilities to the computer 16 that operates the robotic arms and hands.
[00250] FIG. 2 is a system diagram illustrating a first embodiment of a food robot cooking system that includes a chef studio system and a household robotic kitchen system for preparing a dish by replicating a chef's recipe process and movements. The robotic kitchen cooking system 42 comprises a chef kitchen 44 (also referred to as "chef studio-kitchen"), which transfers one or more software recorded recipe files 46 to a robotic kitchen 48 (also referred to as "household robotic kitchen"). In one embodiment, both the chef kitchen 44 and the robotic kitchen 48 use the same standardized robotic kitchen module 50 (also referred as "robotic kitchen module", "robotic kitchen volume", or "kitchen module", or "kitchen volume") to maximize the precise replication of preparing a food dish, which reduces the variables that may contribute to deviations between the food dish prepared at the chef kitchen 44 and the one prepared by the robotic kitchen 46. A chef 52 wears robotic gloves or a costume with external sensory devices for capturing and recording the chef's cooking movements. The standardized robotic kitchen 50 comprises a computer 16 for controlling various computing functions, where the computer 16 includes a memory 52 for storing one or more software recipe files from the sensors of the gloves or costumes 54 for capturing a chef's movements, and a robotic cooking engine (software) 56. The robotic cooking engine 56 includes a movement analysis and recipe abstraction and sequencing module 58. The robotic kitchen 48 typically operates autonomously with a pair of robotic arms and hands, with an optional user 60 to turn on or program the robotic kitchen 46. The computer 16 in the robotic kitchen 48 includes a hard automation module 62 for operating robotic arms and hands, and a recipe replication module 64 for replicating a chef's movements from a software recipe (ingredients, sequence, process, etc.) file.
[00251] The standardized robotic kitchen 50 is designed for detecting, recording, and emulating a chefs cooking movements, controlling significant parameters such as temperature over time, and process execution at robotic kitchen stations with designated appliances, equipment, and tools. The chef kitchen 44 provides a computing kitchen environment 16 with gloves with sensors or a costume with sensors for recording and capturing a chef's 50 movements in the food preparation for a specific recipe. Upon recording the movements and recipe process of the chef 49 for a particular dish into a software recipe file in memory 52, the software recipe file is transferred from the chef kitchen 44 to the robotic kitchen 48 via a communication network 46, including a wireless network and/or a wired network connected to the Internet, so that the user (optional) 60 can purchase one or more software recipe files or the user can be subscribed to the chef kitchen 44 as a member that receives new software recipe files or periodic updates of existing software recipe files. The household robotic kitchen system 48 serves as a robotic computing kitchen environment at residential homes, restaurants, and other places in which the kitchen is built for the user 60 to prepare food. The household robotic kitchen system 48 includes the robotic cooking engine 56 with one or more robotic arms and hard-automation devices for replicating the chefs cooking actions, processes, and movements based on a received software recipe file from the chef studio system 44.
[00252] The chef studio 44 and the robotic kitchen 48 represent an intricately linked teach-playback system, which has multiple levels of fidelity of execution. While the chef studio 44 generates a high- fidelity process model of how to prepare a professionally cooked dish, the robotic kitchen 48 is the execution/replication engine/process for the recipe-script created through the chef working in the chef studio. Standardization of a robotic kitchen module is a means to increase performance fidelity and success/guarantee.
[00253] The varying levels of fidelity for recipe-execution depend on the correlation of sensors and equipment (besides of course the ingredients) between those in the chef studio 44 and that in the robotic kitchen 48. Fidelity can be defined as a dish tasting identical to that prepared by a human chef (indistinguishably so) at one of the (perfect replication/execution) ends of the spectrum, while at the opposite end the dish could have one or more substantial or fatal flaws with implications to quality (overcooked meat or pasta), taste (burnt elements), edibility (incorrect consistency) or even health- implications (undercooked meat such as chicken/pork with salmonella exposure, etc.).
[00254] A robotic kitchen that has identical hardware and sensors and actuation systems that can replicate the movements and processes akin to those by the chef that were recorded during the chef- studio cooking process is more likely to result in a higher fidelity outcome. The implication here is that the setups need to be identical, and this has a cost and volume implication. The robotic kitchen 48 can, however, still be implemented using more standardized non-computer-controlled or computer- monitored elements (pots with sensors, networked appliances, such as ovens, etc.), requiring more sensor-based understanding to allow for more complex execution monitoring. Since uncertainty has now increased as to key elements (correct amount of ingredients, cooking temperatures, etc.) and processes (use of stirrer/masher in case a blender is not available in a robotic home kitchen), the guarantees of having an identical outcome to that from the chef will undoubtedly be lower.
[00255] An emphasis in the present disclosure is that the notion of a chef studio 44 coupled with a robotic kitchen is a generic concept. The level of the robotic kitchen 48 is variable all the way from a home-kitchen outfitted with a set of arms and environmental sensors, all the way to an identical replica of the studio-kitchen, where a set of arms and articulated motions, tools, and appliances and ingredient- supply can replicate the chef's recipe in an almost identical fashion. The only variable to contend with will be the quality-degree of the end-result or dish in terms of quality, looks, taste, edibility, and health.
[00256] A potential method to mathematically describe this correlation between the recipe- outcome and the input variables in the robotic kitchen can best be described by the function below:
F F (L , P, M, V) + F (Ff, I, Re, P where Fstudi0 = Recipe Script Fidelity of Chef-Studio
FRobKit = Recipe Script Execution by Robotic Kitchen
I = Ingredients
E = Equipment
P = Processes
M = Methods
V = Variables (Temperature, Time, Pressure, etc.)
Ef = Equipment Fidelity
Re = Replication Fidelity
Pmf= Process Monitoring Fidelity
[00257] The above equation relates the degree to which the outcome of a robotically-prepared recipe matches that a human chef would prepare and serve (Frecipe-outcome) to the level that the recipe was properly captured and represented by the chef studio 44 (Fstudi0) based on the ingredients (I) used, the equipment (E) available to execute the chef's processes (P) and methods (M) by properly capturing all the key variables (V) during the cooking process; and how the robotic kitchen is able to represent the replication/execution process of the robotic recipe script by a function (FRobKit) that is primarily driven by the use of the proper ingredients (I), the level of equipment fidelity (Ef) in the robotic kitchen compared to that in the chef studio, the level to which the recipe-script can be replicated (Re) in the robotic kitchen, and to what extent there is an ability and need to monitor and execute corrective actions to achieve the highest process monitoring fidelity (Pmf) possible. [00258] The functions (Fstudi0) and (FRobKlt) can be any combination of linear or non-linear functional formulas with constants, variables, and any form of algorithmic relationships. An example for such algebraic representations for both functions could be:
[00259] Fstudi0= I (fct. sin(Temp)) + E (fct. Cooptopl*5) + P(fct. Circle(spoon) + V (fct. 0.5*time)
[00260] Delineating that the fidelity of the preparation process is related to the temperature of the ingredient, which varies over time in the refrigerator as a sinusoidal function, the speed with which an ingredient can be heated on the cooktop on specific station at a particular multiplicative rate, and related to how well a spoon can be moved in a circular path of a certain amplitude and period, and that the process needs to be carried out at no less than ½ the speed of the human chef for the fidelity of the preparation process to be maintained.
[00261] FRobKit= Ef,(Cooktop2, Size) + I (1.25*Size + Linear(Temp)) + Re(Motion-Profile) + Pmf (Sensor- Suite Correspondence)
[00262] Delineating that the fidelity of the replication process in the robotic kitchen is related to the appliance type and layout for a particular cooking-area and the size of the heating-element, the size and temperature profile of the ingredient being seared and cooked (thicker steak requiring more cooking time), while also preserving the motion-profile of any stirring and bathing motions of a particular step like searing or mousse-beating, and whether the correspondence between sensors in the robotic kitchen and the chef-studio is sufficiently high to trust the monitored sensor data to be accurate and detailed enough to provide a proper monitoring fidelity of the cooking process in the robotic kitchen during all steps in a recipe.
[00263] The outcome of a recipe is not only a function of what fidelity the human chef's cooking steps/methods/process/skills were captured with by the chef studio, but also with what fidelity these can be executed by the robotic kitchen, where each of them has key elements that impact their respective subsystem performance.
[00264] FIG. 3 is a system diagram illustrating one embodiment of the standardized robotic kitchen 50 for food preparation by recording a chef's movement in preparing and replicating a food dish by robotic arms and hands. In this context, the term "standardized" (or "standard") means that the specifications of the components or features are presets, as will be explained below. The computer 16 is communicatively coupled to multiple kitchen elements in the standardized robotic kitchen 50, including a three-dimensional vision sensor 66, a retractable safety screen 68 (e.g., glass, plastic, or other types of protective material), robotic arms 70, robotic hands 72, standardized cooking appliances/equipment 74, standardized cookware with sensors 76, standardized handle(s) or standardized cookware 78, standardized handles and utensils 80, standardized hard automation dispenser(s) 82 (also referred to as "robotic hard automation module(s)"), a standardized kitchen processor 84, standardized containers 86, and a standardized food storage in a refrigerator 88.
[00265] The standardized (hard) automation dispenser(s) 82 is a device or a series of devices that is/are programmable and/or controllable via the cooking computer 16 to feed or provide pre-packaged (known) amounts or dedicated feeds of key materials for the cooking process, such as spices (salt, pepper, etc.), liquids (water, oil, etc.), or other dry materials (flour, sugar, etc.). The standardized hard automation dispensers 82 may be located at a specific station or may be able to be robotically accessed and triggered to dispense according to the recipe sequence. In other embodiments, a robotic hard automation module may be combined or sequenced in series or parallel with other modules, robotic arms, or cooking utensils. In this embodiment, the standardized robotic kitchen 50 includes robotic arms 70 and robotic hands 72; robotic hands, as controlled by the robotic food preparation engine 56 in accordance with a software recipe file stored in the memory 52 for replicating a chef's precise movements in preparing a dish to produce the same tasting dish as if the chef had prepared it himself or herself. The three-dimensional vision sensors 66 provide the capability to enable three-dimensional modeling of objects, providing a visual three-dimensional model of the kitchen activities, and scanning the kitchen volume to assess the dimensions and objects within the standardized robotic kitchen 50. The retractable safety glass 68 comprises a transparent material on the robotic kitchen 50, which when in an ON state extends the safety glass around the robotic kitchen to protect surrounding human beings from the movements of the robotic arms 70 and hands 72, hot water and other liquids, steam, fire and other dangers influents. The robotic food preparation engine 56 is communicatively coupled to an electronic memory 52 for retrieving a software recipe file previously sent from the chef studio system 44 for which the robotic food preparation engine 56 is configured to execute processes in preparing and replicating the cooking method and processes of a chef as indicated in the software recipe file. The combination of robotic arms 70 and robotic hands 72 serves to replicate the precise movements of the chef in preparing a dish, so that the resulting food dish will taste identical (or substantially identical) to the same food dish prepared by the chef. The standardized cooking equipment 74 includes an assortment of cooking appliances 46 that are incorporated as part of the robotic kitchen 50, including, but not limited to, a stove/induction/cooktop (electric cooktop, gas cooktop, induction cooktop), an oven, a grill, a cooking steamer, and a microwave oven. The standardized cookware and sensors 76 are used as embodiments for the recording of food preparation steps based on the sensors on the cookware and cooking a food dish based on the cookware with sensors, which include a pot with sensors, a pan with sensors, an oven with sensors, and a charcoal grill with sensors. The standardized cookware 78 includes frying pans, saute pans, grill pans, multi-pots, roasters, woks, and braisers. The robotic arms 70 and the robotic hands 72 operate the standardized handles and utensils 80 in the cooking process. In one embodiment, one of the robotic hands 72 is fitted with a standardized handle, which is attached to a fork head, a knife head, and a spoon head for selection as required. The standardized hard automation dispensers 82 are incorporated into the robotic kitchen 50 to provide for expedient (via both robot arms 70 and human use) key and common/repetitive ingredients that are easily measured/dosed out or pre-packaged. The standardized containers 86 are storage locations that store food at room temperature. The standardized refrigerator containers 88 refer to, but are not limited to, a refrigerator with identified containers for storing fish, meat, vegetables, fruit, milk, and other perishable items. The containers in the standardized containers 86 or standardized storages 88 can be coded with container identifiers from which the robotic food preparation engine 56 is able to ascertain the type of food in a container based on the container identifier. The standardized containers 86 provide storage space for non-perishable food items such as salt, pepper, sugar, oil, and other spices. Standardized cookware with sensors 76 and the cookware 78 may be stored on a shelf or a cabinet for use by the robotic arms 70 for selecting a cooking tool to prepare a dish. Typically, raw fish, raw meat, and vegetables are pre-cut and stored in the identified standardized storages 88. The kitchen countertop 90 provides a platform for the robotic arms 70 to handle the meat or vegetables as needed, which may or may not include cutting or chopping actions. The kitchen faucet 92 provides a kitchen sink space for washing or cleaning food in preparation for a dish. When the robotic arms 70 have completed the recipe process to prepare a dish and the dish is ready for serving, the dish is placed on a serving counter 90, which further allows for the dining environment to be enhanced by adjusting the ambient setting with the robotic arms 70, such as placement of utensils, wine glasses, and a chosen wine compatible with the meal. One embodiment of the equipment in the standardized robotic kitchen module 50 is a professional series to increase the universal appeal to prepare various types of dishes.
[00266] The standardized robotic kitchen module 50 has as one objective: the standardization of the kitchen module 50 and various components with the kitchen module itself to ensure consistency in both the chef kitchen 44 and the robotic kitchen 48 to maximize the preciseness of recipe replication while minimizing the risks of deviations from precise replication of a recipe dish between the chef kitchen 44 and the robotic kitchen 48. One main purpose of having the standardization of the kitchen module 50 is to obtain the same result of the cooking process (or the same dish) between a first food dish prepared by the chef and a subsequent replication of the same recipe process via the robotic kitchen. Conceiving a standardized platform in the standardized robotic kitchen module 50 between the chef kitchen 44 and the robotic kitchen 48 has several key considerations: same timeline, same program or mode, and quality check. The same timeline in the standardized robotic kitchen 50 where the chef prepares a food dish at the chef kitchen 44 and the replication process by the robotic hands in the robotic kitchen 48 refers to the same sequence of manipulations, the same initial and ending time of each manipulation, and the same speed of moving an object between handling operations. The same program or mode in the standardized robotic kitchen 50 refers to the use and operation of standardized equipment during each manipulation recording and execution step. The quality check refers to three-dimensional vision sensors in the standardized robotic kitchen 50, which monitor and adjust in real time each manipulation action during the food preparation process to correct any deviation and avoid a flawed result. The adoption of the standardized robotic kitchen module 50 reduces and minimizes the risks of not obtaining the same result between the chefs prepared food dish and the food dish prepared by the robotic kitchen using robotic arms and hands. Without the standardization of a robotic kitchen module and the components within the robotic kitchen module, the increased variations between the chef kitchen 44 and the robotic kitchen 48 increase the risks of not being able to obtain the same result between the chef's prepared food dish and the food dish prepared by the robotic kitchen because more elaborate and complex adjustment algorithms will be required with different kitchen modules, different kitchen equipment, different kitchenware, different kitchen tools, and different ingredients between the chef kitchen 44 and the robotic kitchen 48.
[00267] The standardized robotic kitchen module 50 includes the standardization of many aspects. First, the standardized robotic kitchen module 50 includes standardized positions and orientations (in the XYZ coordinate plane) of any type of kitchenware, kitchen containers, kitchen tools, and kitchen equipment (with standardized fixed holes in the kitchen module and device positions). Second, the standardized robotic kitchen module 50 includes a standardized cooking volume dimension and architecture. Third, the standardized robotic kitchen module 50 includes standardized equipment sets, such as an oven, a stove, a dishwasher, a faucet, etc. Fourth, the standardized robotic kitchen module 50 includes standardized kitchenware, standardized cooking tools, standardized cooking devices, standardized containers, and standardized food storage in a refrigerator, in terms of shape, dimension, structure, material, capabilities, etc. Fifth, in one embodiment, the standardized robotic kitchen module 50 includes a standardized universal handle for handling any kitchenware, tools, instruments, containers, and equipment, which enable a robotic hand to hold the standardized universal handle in only one correct position, while avoiding any improper grasps or incorrect orientations. Sixth, the standardized robotic kitchen module 50 includes standardized robotic arms and hands with a library of manipulations. Seventh, the standardized robotic kitchen module 50 includes a standardized kitchen processor for standardized ingredient manipulations. Eighth, the standardized robotic kitchen module 50 includes standardized three-dimensional vision devices for creating dynamic three-dimensional vision data, as well as other possible standard sensors, for recipe recording, execution tracking, and quality check functions. Ninth, the standardized robotic kitchen module 50 includes standardized types, standardized volumes, standardized sizes, and standardized weights for each ingredient during a particular recipe execution.
[00268] FIG. 4 is a system diagram illustrating one embodiment of the robotic cooking engine 56 (also referred to as "robotic food preparation engine") for use with the computer 16 in the chef studio system 44 and the household robotic kitchen system 48. Other embodiments may have modifications, additions, or variations of the modules in the robotic cooking engine 16, in the chef kitchen 44, and robotic kitchen 48. The robotic cooking engine 56 includes an input module 50, a calibration module 94, a quality check module 96, a chef movement recording module 98, a cookware sensor data recording module 100, a memory module 102 for storing software recipe files, a recipe abstraction module 104 using recorded sensor data to generate machine-module specific sequenced operation profiles, a chef movements replication software module 106, a cookware sensory replication module 108 using one or more sensory curves, a robotic cooking module 110 (computer control to operate standardized operations, minimanipulations, and non-standardized objects), a real-time adjustment module 112, a learning module 114, a minimanipulation library database module 116, a standardized kitchen operation library database module 118, and an output module 120. These modules are communicatively coupled via a bus 122.
[00269] The input module 50 is configured to receive any type of input information, such as software recipe files sent from another computing device. The calibration module 94 is configured to calibrate itself with the robotic arms 70, the robotic hands 72, and other kitchenware and equipment components within the standardized robotic kitchen module 50. The quality check module 96 is configured to determine the quality and freshness of raw meat, raw vegetables, milk-associated ingredients, and other raw foods at the time that the raw food is retrieved for cooking, as well as checking the quality of raw foods when receiving the food into the standardized food storage 88. The quality check module 96 can also be configured to conduct quality testing of an object based on senses, such as the smell of the food, the color of the food, the taste of the food, and the image or appearance of the food. The chef movements recording module 98 is configured to record the sequence and the precise movements of the chef when the chef prepares a food dish. The cookware sensor data recording module 100 is configured to record sensory data from cookware equipped with sensors (such as a pan with sensors, a grill with sensors, or an oven with sensors) placed in different zones within the cookware, thereby producing one or more sensory curves. The result is the generation of a sensory curve, such as temperature curve (and/or humidity), that reflects the temperature fluctuation of cooking appliances over time for a particular dish. The memory module 102 is configured as a storage location for storing software recipe files, for either replication of chef recipe movements or other types of software recipe files including sensory data curves. The recipe abstraction module 104 is configured to use recorded sensor data to generate machine-module specific sequenced operation profiles. The chef movements replication module 106 is configured to replicate the chef's precise movements in preparing a dish based on the stored software recipe file in the memory 52. The cookware sensory replication module 108 is configured to replicate the preparation of a food dish by following the characteristics of one or more previously recorded sensory curves, which were generated when the chef 49 prepared a dish by using the standardized cookware with sensors 76. The robotic cooking module 110 is configured to control and operate autonomously standardized kitchen operations, minimanipulations, non-standardized objects, and the various kitchen tools and equipment in the standardized robotic kitchen 50. The real time adjustment module 112 is configured to provide real-time adjustments to the variables associated with a particular kitchen operation or a mini operation to produce a resulting process that is a precise replication of the chef movement or a precise replication of the sensory curve. The learning module 114 is configured to provide learning capabilities to the robotic cooking engine 56 to optimize the precise replication in preparing a food dish by robotic arms 70 and the robotic hands 72, as if the food dish was prepared by a chef, using a method such as case-based (robotic) learning. The minimanipulation library database module 116 is configured to store
a first database library of minimanipulations. The standardized kitchen operation library database module 117 is configured to store a second database library of standardized kitchenware and information on how to operate this standardized kitchenware. The output module 118 is configured to send output computer files or control signals external to the robotic cooking engine.
[00270] FIG. 5A is a block diagram illustrating a chef studio recipe-creation process 124, showcasing several main functional blocks supporting the use of expanded multimodal sensing to create a recipe instruction-script for a robotic kitchen. Sensor-data from a multitude of sensors, such as (but not limited to) smell 126, video cameras 128, infrared scanners and rangefinders 130, stereo (or even trinocular) cameras 132, haptic gloves 134, articulated laser-scanners 136, virtual-world goggles 138, microphones 140 or an exoskeleton motion suit 142, human voice 144, touch-sensors 146, and even other forms of user input 148, are used to collect data through a sensor interface module 150. The data is acquired and filtered 152, including possible human user input 148 (e.g., chef, touch-screen and voice input), after which a multitude of (parallel) software processes utilize the temporal and spatial data to generate the data that is used to populate the machine-specific recipe-creation process. Sensors may not be limited to capturing human position and/or motion but may also capture position, orientation, and/or motion of other objects in the standardized robotic kitchen 50.
[00271] These individual software modules generate such information (but are not thereby limited to only these modules) as (i) chef-location and cooking-station ID via a location and configuration module 154, (ii) configuration of arms (via torso), (iii) tools handled, when and how, (iv) utensils used and locations on the station through the hardware and variable abstraction module 156, (v) processes executed with them, and (vi) variables (temperature, lid y/n, stirring, etc.) in need of monitoring through the process module 158, (vii) temporal (start/finish, type) distribution and (viii) types of processes (stir, fold, etc.) being applied, and (ix) ingredients added (type, amount, state of prep, etc.) through the cooking sequence and process abstraction module 160.
[00272] All this information is then used to create a machine-specific (not just for the robotic-arms, but also ingredient dispensers, tools, and utensils, etc.) set of recipe instructions through the stand- alone module 162, which are organized as script of sequential/parallel overlapping tasks to be executed and monitored. This recipe-script is stored 164 alongside the entire raw data set 166 in the data storage module 168 and is made accessible to either a remote robotic cooking station through the robotic kitchen interface module 170 or a human user 172 via a graphical user interface (GUI) 174.
[00273] FIG. 5B is a block diagram illustrating one embodiment of the standardized chef studio 44 and robotic kitchen 50 with teach/playback process 176. The teach/playback process 176 describes the steps of capturing a chef's recipe-implementation processes/methods/skills 49 in the chef studio 44 where he/she carries out the recipe execution 180, using a set of chef-studio standardized equipment 74 and recipe-required ingredients 178 to create a dish while being logged and monitored 182. The raw sensor data is logged (for playback) in 182 and processed to generate information at different abstraction levels (tools/equipment used, techniques employed, times/temperatures started/ended, etc.), and then used to create a recipe-script 184 for execution by the robotic kitchen 48. The robotic kitchen 48 engages in a recipe replication process 106, whose profile depends on whether the kitchen is of a standardized or non-standardized type, which is checked by a process 186.
[00274] The robotic kitchen execution is dependent on the type of kitchen available to the user. If the robotic kitchen uses the same/identical (at least functionally) equipment as used in the in the chef studio, the recipe replication process is primarily one of using the raw data and playing it back as part of the recipe-script execution process. Should the kitchen however differ from the ideal standardized kitchen, the execution engine(s) will have to rely on the abstraction data to generate kitchen-specific execution sequences to try to achieve a similar step-by-step result.
[00275] Since the cooking process is continually monitored by all sensor units in the robotic kitchen via a monitoring process 194, regardless of whether the known studio equipment 196 or the mixed/atypical non-chef studio equipment 198 is being used, the system is able to make modifications as needed depending on a recipe progress check 200. In one embodiment of the standardized kitchen, raw data is typically played back through an execution module 188 using chef-studio type equipment, and the only adjustments that are expected are adaptations 202 in the execution of the script (repeat a certain step, go back to a certain step, slow down the execution, etc.) as there is a one-to-one correspondence between taught and played-back data-sets. However, in the case of the non- standardized kitchen, the chances are very high that the system will have to modify and adapt the actual recipe itself and its execution, via a recipe script modification module 204, to suit the available tools/appliances 192 which differ from those in the chef studio 44 or the measured deviations from the recipe script (meat cooking too slowly, hot-spots in pot burning the roux, etc.). Overall recipe-script progress is monitored using a similar process 206, which differs depending on whether chef-studio equipment 208 or mixed/atypical kitchen equipment 210 is being used.
[00276] A non-standardized kitchen is less likely to result in a close-to-human chef cooked dish, as compared to using a standardized robotic kitchen that has equipment and capabilities reflective of those used in the studio-kitchen. The ultimate subjective decision is of course that of the human (or chef) tasting, or a quality evaluation 212, which yields to a (subjective) quality decision 214. [00277] FIG. 5C is a block diagram illustrating one embodiment 216 of a recipe script generation and abstraction engine that pertains to the structure and flow of the recipe-script generation process as part of the chef-studio recipe walk-through by a human chef. The first step is for all available data measurable in the chef studio 44, whether it be ergonomic data from the chef (arms/hands positions and velocities, haptic finger data, etc.), status of the kitchen appliances (ovens, fridges, dispensers, etc.), specific variables (cooktop temperature, ingredient temperature, etc.), appliance or tools being used (pots/pans, spatulas, etc.), or two-dimensional and three-dimensional data collected by multi-spectrum sensory equipment (including cameras, lasers, structured light systems, etc.), to be input and filtered by the central computer system and also time-stamped by a main process 218.
[00278] A data process-mapping algorithm 220 uses the simpler (typically single-unit) variables to determine where the process action is taking place (cooktop and/or oven, fridge, etc.) and assigns a usage tag to any item/appliance/equipment being used whether intermittently or continuously. It associates a cooking step (baking, grilling, ingredient-addition, etc.) to a specific time-period and tracks when, where, which, and how much of what ingredient was added. This (time-stamped) information dataset is then made available for the data-melding process during the recipe-script generation process 222.
[00279] The data extraction and mapping process 224 is primarily focused on taking two- dimensional information (such as from monocular/single-lensed cameras) and extracting key information from the same. In order to extract the important and more abstraction descriptive information from each successive image, several algorithmic processes have to be applied to this dataset. Such processing steps can include (but are not limited to) edge-detection, color and texture- mapping, and then using the domain-knowledge in the image, coupled with object-matching information (type and size) extracted from the data reduction and abstraction process 226, to allow for the identification and location of the object (whether an item of equipment or ingredient, etc.), again extracted from the data reduction and abstraction process 226, allowing one to associate the state (and all associated variables describing the same) and items in an image with a particular process-step (frying, boiling, cutting, etc.). Once this data has been extracted and associated with a particular image at a particular point in time, it can be passed to the recipe-script generation process 222 to formulate the sequence and steps within a recipe.
[00280] The data-reduction and abstraction engine (set of software routines) 226 is intended to reduce the larger three-dimensional data sets and extract from them key geometric and associative information. A first step is to extract from the large three-dimensional data point-cloud only the specific workspace area of importance to the recipe at that particular point in time. Once the data set has been trimmed, key geometric features will be identified by a process known as template matching. This allows for the identification of such items as horizontal tabletops, cylindrical pots and pans, arm and hand locations, etc. Once typical known (template) geometric entities are determined in a data-set a process of object identification and matching proceeds to differentiate all items (pot vs. pan, etc.) and associates the proper dimensionality (size of pot or pan, etc.) and orientation of the same, and places them within the three-dimensional world model being assembled by the computer. All this abstraction/extracted information are then also shared with the data-extraction and mapping engine 224, prior to all being fed to the recipe-script generation engine 222.
[00281] The recipe-script generation engine process 222 is responsible for melding (blending/combining) all the available data and sets into a structured and sequential cooking script with clear process-identifiers (prepping, blanching, frying, washing, plating, etc.) and process-specific steps within each, which can then be translated into robotic-kitchen machine-executable command-scripts that are synchronized based on process-completion and overall cooking time and cooking progress. Data melding will at least involve, but will not solely be limited to, the ability to take each (cooking) process step and populating the sequence of steps to be executed with the properly associated elements (ingredients, equipment, etc.), methods and processes to be used during the process steps, and the associated key control (set oven/cooktop temperatures/settings), and monitoring-variables (water or meat temperature, etc.) to be maintained and checked to verify proper progress and execution. The melded data is then combined into a structured sequential cooking script that will resemble a set of minimally descriptive steps (akin to a recipe in a magazine) but with a much larger set of variables associated with each element (equipment, ingredient, process, method, variable, etc.) of the cooking process at any one point in the procedure. The final step is to take this sequential cooking script and transform it into an identically structured sequential script that is translatable by a set of machines/robot/equipment within a robotic kitchen 48. It is this script the robotic kitchen 48 uses to execute the automated recipe execution and monitoring steps.
[00282] All raw (unprocessed) and processed data as well as the associated scripts (both structure sequential cooking-sequence script and the machine-executable cooking-sequence script) are stored in the data and profile storage unit/process 228 and time-stamped. It is from this database that the user, by way of a GUI, can select and cause the robotic kitchen to execute a desired recipe through the automated execution and monitoring engine 230, which is continually monitored by its own internal automated cooking process, with necessary adaptations and modifications to the script generated by the same and implemented by the robotic-kitchen elements, in order to arrive at a completely plated and served dish.
[00283] FIG. 5D is a block diagram illustrating software elements for object-manipulation (or object handling) in the sta ndardized robotic kitchen 50, which shows the structure and flow 250 of the object- manipulation portion of the robotic kitchen execution of a robotic script, using the notion of motion- replication coupled-with/aided-by minimanipulation steps. In order for automated robotic-arm/-hand- based cooking to be viable, it is insufficient to monitor every single joint in the arm and hands/fingers. In many cases just the position and orientation of the hand/wrist are known (a nd able to be replicated), but then manipulating an object (identifying location, orientation, pose, grab-location, grabbing-strategy and task-execution) requires that local-sensing and learned behaviors and strategies for the hand and fingers be used to complete the grabbing/manipulating task successfully. These motion-profiles (sensor- based/-driven) behaviors and sequences are stored within the mini hand-manipulation library software repository in the robotic-kitchen system. The human chef could be wearing complete arm-exoskeleton or an instrumented/target-fitted motion-vest allowing the computer via built-in sensors or though camera-tracking to determine the exact 3D position of the hands and wrists at all times. Even if the ten fingers on both hands had all their joints instrumented (more than 30 DoFs (Degrees of Freedom) for both hands and very awkward to wear and use, and thus unlikely to be used), a simple motion-based playback of all joint positions would not guarantee successful (interactive) object manipulation.
[00284] The minimanipulation library is a command-software repository, where motion behaviors and processes are stored based on an off-li ne learning process, where the arm/wrist/finger motions and sequences to successfully complete a particular abstract task (grab the knife and then slice; grab the spoon and then stir; grab the pot with one hand and then use other hand to gra b spatula and get under meat and flip it inside the pan; etc.). This repository has been built up to contain the learned sequences of successful sensor-driven motion-profiles and sequenced behaviors for the hand/wrist (and sometimes also arm-position corrections), to ensure successful completions of object (appliance, equipment, tools) and ingredient manipulation tasks that are described in a more abstract language, such as "grab the knife and slice the vegetable", "crack the egg into the bowl", "flip the meat over in the pan", etc. The learning process is iterative and is based on multiple trials of a chef-taught motion-profile from the chef studio, which is then executed and iteratively modified by the offline learning a lgorithm module, until an acceptable execution-sequence can be shown to have been achieved. The minimanipulation library (command software repository) is intended to have been populated (a-priori and offline) with all the necessary elements to allow the robotic-kitchen system to successfully interact with all equipment (appliances, tools, etc.) and main ingredients that require processing (steps beyond just dispensing) during the cooking process. While the human chef wore gloves with embedded haptic sensors (proximity, touch, contact-location/-force) for the fingers and palm, the robotic hands are outfitted with similar sensor-types in locations to allow their data to be used to create, modify and adapt motion- profiles to execute successfully the desired motion-profiles and handling-commands.
[00285] The object-manipulation portion of the robotic-kitchen cooking process (robotic recipe- script execution software module for the interactive manipulation and handling of objects in the kitchen environment) 252 is further elaborated below. Using the robotic recipe-script database 254 (which contains data in raw, abstraction cooking-sequence and machine-executable script forms), the recipe script executor module 256 steps through a specific recipe execution-step. The configuration playback module 258 selects and passes configuration commands through to the robot arm system (torso, arm, wrist and hands) controller 270, which then controls the physical system to emulate the required configuration (joint-positions/-velocities/-torques, etc.) values.
[00286] The notion of being able to carry out proper environment interaction manipulation and handling tasks faithfully is made possible through a real-time process-verification by way of (i) 3D world modeling as well as (ii) minimanipulation. Both the verification and manipulation steps are carried out through the addition of the robot wrist and hand configuration modifier 260. This software module uses data from the 3D world configuration modeler 262, which creates a new 3D world model at every sampling step from sensory data supplied by the multimodal sensor(s) unit(s), in order to ascertain that the configuration of the robotic kitchen systems and process matches that required by the recipe script (database); if not, it enacts modifications to the commanded system-configuration values to ensure the task is completed successfully. Furthermore, the robot wrist and hand configuration modifier 260 also uses configuration-modifying input commands from the minimanipulation motion profile executor 264. The hand/wrist (and potentially also arm) configuration modification data fed to the configuration modifier 260 are based on the minimanipulation motion profile executor 264 knowing what the desired configuration playback should be from 258, but then modifying it based on its 3D object model library 266 and the a-priori learned (and stored) data from the configuration and sequencing library 268 (which was built based on multiple iterative learning steps for all main object handling and processing steps). [00287] While the configuration modifier 260 continually feeds modified commanded configuration data to the robot arm system controller 270, it relies on the handling/manipulation verification software module 272 to verify not only that the operation is proceeding properly but also whether continued manipulation/handling is necessary. In the case of the latter (answer 'N' to the decision), the configuration modifier 260 re-requests configuration-modification (for the wrist, hands/fingers and potentially the arm and possibly even torso) updates from both the world modeler 262 and the minimanipulation profile executor 264. The goal is simply to verify that a successful manipulation/handling step or sequence has been successfully completed. The handling/manipulation verification software module 272 carries out this check by using the knowledge of the recipe script database F2 and the 3D world configuration modeler 262 to verify the appropriate progress in the cooking step currently being commanded by the recipe script executor 256. Once progress has been deemed successful, the recipe script index increment process 274 notifies the recipe script executor 256 to proceed to the next step in the recipe-script execution.
[00288] FIG. 6 is a block diagram illustrating a multimodal sensing and software engine architecture 300 in accordance with the present disclosure. One of the main autonomous cooking features allowing for planning, execution and monitoring of a robotic cooking script requires the use of multimodal sensory input 302 that is used by multiple software modules to generate data needed to (i) understand the world, (ii) model the scene and materials, (iii) plan the next steps in the robotic cooking sequence, (iv) execute the generated plan and (v) monitor the execution to verify proper operations - all of these steps occurring in a continuous/repetitive closed loop fashion.
[00289] The multimodal sensor-unit(s) 302, comprising, but not limited to, video cameras 304, IR cameras and rangefinders 306, stereo (or even trinocular) camera(s) 308 and multi-dimensional scanning lasers 310, provide multi-spectral sensory data to the main software abstraction engines 312 (after being acquired & filtered in the data acquisition and filtering module 314). The data is used in a scene understanding module 316 to carry out multiple steps such as (but not limited to) building highland lower-resolution (laser: high-resolution; stereo-camera: lower-resolution) three-dimensional surface volumes of the scene, with superimposed visual and IR-spectrum color and texture video information, allowing edge-detection and volumetric object-detection algorithms to infer what elements are in a scene, allowing the use of shape-/color-/texture- and consistency-mapping algorithms to run on the processed data to feed processed information to the Kitchen Cooking Process Equipment Handling Module 318. In the module 318, software-based engines are used for the purpose of identifying and three-dimensionally locating the position and orientation of kitchen tools and utensils and identifying and tagging recognizable food elements (meat, carrots, sauce, liquids, etc.) so as to generate data to let the computer build and understand the complete scene at a particular point in time so as to be used for next-step planning and process monitoring. Engines required to achieve such data and information abstraction include, but are not limited to, grasp reasoning engines, robotic kinematics and geometry reasoning engines, physical reasoning engines and task reasoning engines. Output data from both engines 316 and 318 are then used to feed the scene modeler and content classifier 320, where the 3D world model is created with all the key content required for executing the robotic cooking script executor. Once the fully-populated model of the world is understood, it can be used to feed the motion and handling planner 322 (if robotic-arm grasping and handling are necessary, the same data can be used to differentiate and plan for grasping and manipulating food and kitchen items depending on the required grip and placement) to allow for planning motions and trajectories for the arm(s) and attached end-effector(s) (grippers, multi-fingered hands). A follow-on Execution Sequence planner 324 creates the proper sequencing of task-based commands for all individual robotic/automated kitchen elements, which are then used by the robotic kitchen actuation systems 326. The entire sequence above is repeated in a continuous closed loop during the robotic recipe-script execution and monitoring phase.
[00290] FIG. 7A depicts the standardized kitchen 50 which in this case plays the role of the chef- studio, in which the human chef 49 carries out the recipe creation and execution while being monitored by the multi-modal sensor systems 66, so as to allow the creation of a recipe-script. Within the standardized kitchen, are contained multiple elements necessary for the execution of a recipe, including the main cooking module 350, which includes such as equipment as utensils 360, a cooktop 362, a kitchen sink 358, a dishwasher 356, a table-top mixer and blender (also referred to as a "kitchen blender") 352, an oven 354 and a refrigerator/freezer combination unit 364.
[00291] FIG. 7B depicts the standardized kitchen 50, which in this case is configured as the standardized robotic kitchen, with a dual-arm robotics system with vertical telescoping and rotating torso joint 366, outfitted with two arms 70, and two wristed and fingered hands 72, carries out the recipe replication processes defined in the recipe-script. The multi-modal sensor systems 66 continually monitor the robotically executed cooking steps in the multiple stages of the recipe replication process.
[00292] FIG. 7C depicts the systems involved in the creation of a recipe-script by monitoring a human chef 49 during the entire recipe execution process. The same standardized kitchen 50 is used in a chef studio mode, with the chef able to operate the kitchen from either side of the work-module. Multi- modal sensors 66 monitor and collect data, as well as through the haptic gloves 370 worn by the chef and instrumented cookware 372 and equipment, relaying all collected raw data wirelessly to a processing computer 16 for processing and storage.
[00293] FIG. 7D depicts the systems involved in a standardized kitchen 50 for the replication of a recipe script 19 through the use of a dual-arm system with telescoping and rotating torso 374, comprised of two arms 72, two robotic wrists 71 and two multi-fingered hands 72 with embedded sensory skin and point-sensors. The robotic dual-arm system uses the instrumented arms and hands with a cooking utensil and an instrumented appliance and cookware (pan in this image) on a cooktop 12, while executing a particular step in the recipe replication process, while being continuously monitored by the multi-modal sensor units 66 to ensure the replication process is carried out as faithfully as possible to that created by the human chef. All data from the multi-modal sensors 66, dual-arm robotics system comprised of torso 74, arms 72, wrists 71 and multi-fingered hands 72, utensils, cookware and appliances, is wirelessly transmitted to a computer 16, where it is processed by an onboard processing unit 16 in order to compare and track the replication process of the recipe to as faithfully as possible follow the criteria and steps as defined in the previously created recipe script 19 and stored in media 18.
[00294] Some suitable robotic hands that can be modified for use with the robotic kitchen 48 include Shadow Dexterous Hand and Hand-Lite designed by Shadow Robot Company, located in London, the United Kingdom; a servo-electric 5-finger gripping hand SVH designed by SCHUNK GmbH & Co. KG, located in Lauffen/Neckar, Germany; and DLR HIT HAND II designed by DLR Robotics and Mechatronics, located in Cologne, Germany.
[00295] Several robotic arms 72 are suitable for modification to operate with the robotic kitchen 48, which include U R3 Robot and UR5 Robot by Universal Robots A/S, located in Odense S, Denmark, Industrial Robots with various payloads designed by KUKA Robotics, located in Augsburg, Bavaria, Germany, Industrial Robot Arm Models designed by Yaskawa Motoman, located in Kitakyushu, Japan.
[00296] FIG. 7E is a block diagram depicting the stepwise flow and methods 376 to ensure that there are control or verification points during the recipe replication process based on the recipe-script when executed by the standardized robotic kitchen 50, that ensures as nearly identical as possible a cooking result for a particular dish as executed by the standardized robotic kitchen 50, when compared to the dish prepared by the human chef 49. Using a recipe 378, as described by the recipe-script and executed in sequential steps in the cooking process 380, the fidelity of execution of the recipe by the robotic kitchen 50 will depend largely on considering the following main control items. Key control items include the process of selecting and utilizing a standardized portion amount and shape of a high-quality and pre- processed ingredient 382, the use of standardized tools and utensils, cook-ware with standardized handles to ensure proper and secure grasping with a known orientation 384, standardized equipment 386 (oven, blender, fridge, fridge, etc.) in the standardized kitchen that is as identical as possible when comparing the chef studio kitchen where the human chef 49 prepares the dish and the standardized robotic kitchen 50, location and placement 388 for ingredients to be used in the recipe, and ultimately a pair of robotic arms, wrists and multi-fingered hands in the robotic kitchen module 50 continually monitored by sensors with computer-controlled actions 390 to ensure successful execution of each step in every stage of the replication process of the recipe-script for a particular dish. In the end, the task of ensuring an identical result 392 is the ultimate goal for the standardized robotic kitchen 50.
[00297] FIG. 7F depicts a block diagram of a cloud-based recipe software for facilitating between the chef studio, the robotic kitchen, and other sources. The various types of data communicated, modified, and stored on a cloud computing 396 between the chef kitchen 44, which operates a standardized robotic kitchen 50 and the robotic kitchen 48, which operates a standardized robotic kitchen 50. The cloud computing 394 provides a central location to store software files, including operation of the robot food preparation 56, which can conveniently retrieve and upload software files through a network between the chef kitchen 44 and the robotic kitchen 48. The chef kitchen 44 is communicatively coupled to the cloud computing 395 through a wired or wireless network 396 via the Internet, wireless protocols, and short distance communication protocols, such as BlueTooth. The robotic kitchen 48 is communicatively coupled to the cloud computing 395 through a wired or wireless network 397 via the Internet, wireless protocols, and short distance communication protocols, such as BlueTooth. The cloud computing 395 includes computer storage locations to store a task library 398a with actions, recipe, and minimanipulations; a user profile/data 398b with login information, ID, and subscriptions; a recipe meta data 398c with text, voice media, etc.; an object recognition module 398d with standard images, non- standard images, dimensions, weight, and orientations; an environment/instrumented map 398e for navigation of object positions, locations, and the operating environment; and a controlling software files 398f for storing robotic command instructions, high-level software files, and low-level software files. In another embodiment, the Internet of Things (loT) devices can be incorporated to operate with the chef kitchen 44, the cloud computing 396 and the robotic kitchen 48.
[00298] FIG. 8A is a block diagram illustrating one embodiment of a recipe conversion algorithm module 400 between the chefs movements and the robotic replication movements. A recipe algorithm conversion module 404 converts the captured data from the chef's movements in the chef studio 44 into a machine-readable and machine-executable language 406 for instructing the robotic arms 70 and the robotic hands 72 to replicate a food dish prepared by the chef's movement in the robotic kitchen 48. In the chef studio 44, the computer 16 captures and records the chef's movements based on the sensors on a glove 26 that the chef wears, represented by a plurality of sensors S0, Si, S2, S3, S4, S5, S6 ... Sn in the vertical columns, and the time increments t0, ti, t2, t3, t4, t5, t6 ... tend in the horizontal rows, in a table 408. At time t0, the computer 16 records the xyz coordinate positions from the sensor data received from the plurality of sensors S0, Si, S2, S3, S4, S5, S5 ... Sn. At time ti, the computer 16 records the xyz coordinate positions from the sensor data received from the plurality of sensors S0, S^ S2, S3, S4, S5, S6 ... S„. At time t2, the computer 16 records the xyz coordinate positions from the sensor data received from the plurality of sensors S0, Si, S2/ S3, S4, S5, S6 ... Sn. This process continues until the entire food preparation is completed at time tend- The duration for each time units t0, ti, t2, t3, t4, t5, t6 ... tend is the same. As a result of the captured and recorded sensor data, the table 408 shows any movements from the sensors S0, Si, S2, S3, S4, S5, S6 ... Sn in the glove 26 in xyz coordinates, which would indicate the differentials between the xyz coordinate positions for one specific time relative to the xyz coordinate positions for the next specific time. Effectively, the table 408 records how the chef's movements change over the entire food preparation process from the start time, t0, to the end time, tend. The illustration in this embodiment can be extended to two gloves 26 with sensors, which the chef 49 wears to capture the movements while preparing a food dish. In the robotic kitchen 48, the robotic arms 70 and the robotic hands 72 replicate the recorded recipe from the chef studio 44, which is then converted to robotic instructions, where the robotic arms 70 and the robotic hands 72 replicate the food preparation of the chef 49 according to the timeline 416. The robotic arms 70 and hands 72 carry out the food preparation with the same xyz coordinate positions, at the same speed, with the same time increments from the start time, t0, to the end time, tend, as shown in the timeline 416.
[00299] In some embodiments, a chef performs the same food preparation operation multiple times, yielding values of the sensor reading, and parameters in the corresponding robotic instructions that vary somewhat from one time to the next. The set of sensor readings for each sensor across multiple repetitions of the preparation of the same food dish provides a distribution with a mean, standard deviation and minimum and maximum values. The corresponding variations on the robotic instructions (also called the effector parameters) across multiple executions of the same food dish by the chef also define distributions with mean, standard deviation, minimum and maximum values. These distributions may be used to determine the fidelity (or accuracy) of subsequent robotic food preparations.
[00300] In one embodiment the estimated average accuracy of a robotic food preparation operation is given by:
Figure imgf000060_0001
[00301] Where C represents the set of Chef parameters (1st through nth) and R represents the set of Robotic Apparatus parameters (correspondingly (1st through nth). The numerator in the sum represents the difference between robotic and chef parameters (i.e. the error) and the denominator normalizes for the maximal difference). The sum gives the total normalized cumulative error (i.e.∑n=i,...n— ^, p^— r)
, and multiplying by 1/n gives the average error. The complement of the average error corresponds to the average accuracy.
[00302] Another version of the accuracy calculation weighs the parameters for importance, where each coefficient (each c represents the importance of the ith parameter, the normalized cumulative error is∑n=i,...n— a' c' ^ , and the estimated average accuracy is given by:
Figure imgf000060_0002
[00303] FIG. 8B is a block diagram illustrating the pair of gloves 26a and 26b with sensors worn by the chef 49 for capturing and transmitting the chef's movements. In this illustrative example, which is intended to show one example without limiting effects, a right hand glove 26a Includes 25 sensors to capture the various sensor data points Dl, D2, D3, D4, D5, D6, D7, D8, D9, D10, Dll, D12, D13, D14, D15, D16, D17, D18, D19, D20, D21, D22, D23, D24, and D25, on the glove 26a, which may have optional electronic and mechanical circuits 420. A left hand glove 26b Includes 25 sensors to capture the various sensor data points D26, D27, D28, D29, D30, D31, D32, D33, D34, D35, D36, D37, D38, D39, D40, D41, D42, D43, D44, D45, D46, D47, D48, D49, D50, on the glove 26b, which may have optional electronic and mechanical circuits 422.
[00304] FIG. 8C is a block diagram illustrating robotic cooking execution steps based on the captured sensory data from the chef's sensory capturing gloves 26a and 26b. In the chef studio 44, the chef 49 wears gloves 26a and 26b with sensors for capturing the food preparation process, where the sensor data are recorded in a table 430. In this example, the chef 49 is cutting a carrot with a knife in which each slice of the carrot is about 1 centimeter in thickness. These action primitives by the chef 49, as recorded by the gloves 26a, 26b, may constitute a minimanipulation 432 that take place over time slots 1, 2, 3 and 4. The recipe algorithm conversion module 404 is configured to convert the recorded recipe file from the chef studio 44 to robotic instructions for operating the robotic arms 70 and the robotic hands 72 in the robotic kitchen 28 according to a software table 434. The robotic arms 70 and the robotic hands 72 prepare the food dish with control signals 436 for the minimanipulation, as pre-defined in the minimanipulation library 116, of cutting the carrot with knife in which each slice of the carrot is about 1 centimeter in thickness. The robotic arms 70 and the robotic hands 72 operate autonomously with the same xyz coordinates 438 and with possible real-time adjustment on the size and shape of a particular carrot by creating a temporary three-dimensional model 440 of the carrot from the real-time adjustment devices 112
[00305] In order to operate a mechanical robotic mechanism autonomously such as the ones described in the embodiments of this disclosure, a skilled artisan realizes that many mechanical and control problems need to be addressed, and the literature in robotics describes methods to do just that. The establishment of static and/or dynamic stability in a robotics system is an important consideration. Especially for robotic manipulation, dynamic stability is a strongly desired property, in order to prevent accidental breakage or movements beyond those desired or programmed. Dynamic stability is illustrated in FIG. 8D relative to equilibrium. Here the "equilibrium value" is the desired state of the arm (i.e. the arm moves to exactly where it was programmed to move to, with deviations caused by any number of factors such as inertia, centripetal or centrifugal forces, harmonic oscillations, etc. A dynamically-stable system is one where variations are small and dampen out over time, as represented by a curved line 450. A dynamically unstable system is one where variations fail to dampen and can increase over time, as depicted by a curved line 452. In addition, the worst situation is when the arm is statically unstable (e.g. it cannot hold the weight of whatever it is grasping), and falls, or it fails to recover from any deviation from the programmed position and/or path, as illustrated by a curved line 454. For additional information on planning (forming sequences of minimanipulations, or recovering when something goes wrong), Garagnani, M. (1999) "Improving the Efficiency of Processed Domain- axioms Planning", Proceedings of PLANSIG-99, Manchester, England, pp. 190-192, which this references is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. [00306] The cited literature addresses conditions for dynamic stability that are imported by reference into the present disclosure to enable proper functioning of the robotic arms. These conditions include the fundamental principl a robotic arm:
Figure imgf000062_0001
[00307] where T is the torque vector (T has n components, each corresponding to a degree of freedom of the robotic arm), M is the inertial matrix of the system (M is a positive semi-definite n-by-n matrix), C is a combination of centripetal and centrifugal forces, also an n-by-n matrix, G(q) is the gravity vector, and q is the position vector. In addition, they include finding stable points and minima, e.g. via the LaGrange equation if the robotic positions (x's) can be described by twice-differentiable functions
(y's).
Figure imgf000062_0002
[00308] In order for the system comprised of the robotic arms and hands/grippers to be stable, the system needs to be properly designed, built, and have an appropriate sensing and control system, which operates within the boundary of acceptable performance. One wants to achieve the best (highest speed with highest position/velocity and force/torque tracking and all under stable conditions) performance possible, given the physical system and what its controller is asking it to do.
[00309] When one speaks of proper design, the notion is one of achieving proper observability a nd controllability of the system. Observability implies that the key variables of the system (joint/finger positions and velocities, forces and torques) are measurable by the system, which implies one needs to have the ability to sense these variables, which in turn implies the presence and use of the proper sensing devices (internal or external). Controllability implies that one (computer in this case) have the ability to shape or control the key axes of the system based on observed parameters from internal/external sensors; this usually implies an actuator or direct/indirect control over a certain parameter by way of a motor or other computer-controlled actuation system. The ability to make the system as linear in its response as possible, thereby negating the detrimental effects of nonlinearities (stiction, backlash, hysteresis, etc. ), allows for control schemes like PID gain-scheduling and nonlinear controllers like sliding-mode control to guarantee system stability and performance even in the light of system-modeling uncertainties (errors in mass/inertia estimates, dimensional geometry discretization, sensor/torque discretization anomalies, etc.) which are always present in any higher-performance control system.
[00310] Furthermore, the use of a proper computing and sampling system is significant, as the system's ability to follow rapid motions with a certain maximum frequency content is clearly related to what control bandwidth (closed-loop sampling rate of the computer control system) the entire system is able to achieve and thus the frequency-response (ability to track motions of certain speeds and motion- frequency content) the system is able to exhibit.
[00311] All the above characteristics are significant when it comes to ensuring that a highly redundant system can actually carry out the complex and dexterous tasks a human chef requires for a successful recipe-script execution, in both a dynamic and a stable fashion.
[00312] Machine learning in the context of robotic manipulation of relevance to the disclosure can involve well known methods for parameter adjustment, such as reinforcement learning. An alternate and preferred embodiment for this disclosure is a different and more appropriate learning technique for repetitive complex actions such as preparing and cooking a meal with multiple steps over time, namely case-based learning. Case-based reasoning, also known as analogical reasoning, has been developed over time.
[00313] As a general overview, case-based reasoning comprises the following steps:
A. Constructing and remembering cases. A case is a sequence of actions with parameters that are successfully carried out to achieve an objective. The parameters include distances, forces, directions, positions, and other physical or electronic measures whose values are required to carry out the task successfully (e.g. a cooking operation). First,
1. storing aspects of the problem that was just solved together with:
2. the method(s) and optionally intermediate steps to solve the problem and its parameter values, and
3. (typically) storing the final outcome.
B. Applying cases (at a later point of time)
4. Retrieving one or more stored cases whose problems bear strong similarity to the new problem,
5. Optionally adjusting the parameters from the retrieved case(s) to apply to the current case (e.g. an item may weigh somewhat more, and hence a somewhat stronger force is needed to lift it),
6. Using the same methods and steps from the case(s) with the adjusted parameters (if needed) at least in part to solve the new problem. Hence, case-based reasoning comprises remembering solutions to past problems and applying them with possible parametric modification to new very similar problems. However, in order to apply case- based reasoning to the robotic manipulation challenge, something more is needed. Variation in one parameter of the solution plan will cause variation in one or more coupled parameters. This requires transformation of the problem solution, not just application. We call the new process case-based robotic learning since it generalizes the solution to a family of close solutions (those corresponding to small variations in the input parameters - such as exact weight, shape and location of the input ingredients). Case-based robotic learning operates as follows:
C. Constructing, remembering and transforming robotic manipulation cases
1. Storing aspects of the problem that was just solved together with:
2. The value of the parameters (e.g. the inertial matrix, forces, etc. from equation 1),
3. Perform perturbation analysis by varying the parameter(s) pertinent to the domain (e.g. in cooking, vary the weight of the materials or their exact starting position), to see how much parameter values can vary and still obtain the desired results,
4. Via perturbation analysis on the model, record which other parameter values will change (e.g. forces) and by how much they should change, and
5. If the changes are within operating specification of the robotic apparatus, store the transformed solution plan (with the dependencies among parameters and projected change calculations for their values).
D. Applying cases (at a later point of time)
6. Retrieve one or more stored cases with the transformed exact values (now ranges, or calculations for new values depending on values of the input parameters), but still whose initial problems bear strong similarity to the new problem, including parameter values and value ranges, and
7. Use the transformed methods and steps from the case(s) at least in part to solve the new problem.
As the chef teaches the robot (the two arms and the sensing devices, such as haptic feedback from fingers, force-feedback from joints, and one or more observation cameras), the robot learns not only the specific sequence of movements, and time correlations, but also the family of small variations around the chef's movements to be able to prepare the same dish regardless of minor variations in the observable input parameters - and thus it learns a generalized transformed plan, giving it far greater utility than rote memorization. For additional information on case-based reasoning and learning, see materials by Leake, 1996 Book , Case-Based Reasoning: Experiences, Lessons and Future Directions, http://journals. Cambridge. org/action/displayAbstract?fromPage=online&aid=4068324&fileld=S0269888 900006585dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=524680; Carbonell, 1983, Learning by Analogy: Formulating and Generalizing Plans from Past Experience, http://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-662-12405- 5_5, which these references are incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.
[00314] As depicted in FIG. 8E, the process of cooking requires a sequence of steps that are referred to as a plurality of stages Si, S2, S3 ... S ... Sn of food preparation, as shown in a timeline 456. These may require strict linear/sequential ordering or some may be performed in parallel; either way we have a set of stages {Si, S2, S„ Sn}, all of which must be completed successfully to achieve overall success. If the probability of success for each stage is P(Sj) and there are n stages, then the probability of overall success is estimated by the product of the probability of success at each stage:
P(S) = J~ p(Sl)
s(es
[00315] A person of skill in the art will appreciate that the probability of overall success can be low even if the probability of success of individual stages is relatively high. For instance, given 10 stages and a probability of success of each stage being 90%, the probability of overall success is (.9)10 = .28 or 28%.
[00316] A stage in preparing a food dish comprises one or more minimanipulations, where each minimanipulation comprises one or more robotic actions leading to a well-defined intermediate result.
For instance, slicing a vegetable can be a minimanipulation comprising grasping the vegetable with one hand, grasping a knife with the other, and applying repeated knife movements until the vegetable is sliced. A stage in preparing a dish can comprise one or multiple slicing minimanipulations.
[00317] The probability of success formula applies equally well at the level of stages and at the level of minimanipulations, so long as each minimanipulation is relatively independent of other minimanipulations.
[00318] In one embodiment, in order to mitigate the problem of reduced certainty of success due to potential compounding errors, standardized methods for most or all of the minimanipulations in all of the stages are recommended. Standardized operations are ones that can be pre-programmed, pretested, and if necessary pre-adjusted to select the sequence of operations with the highest proba bility of success. Hence, if the probability of standardized methods via the minimanipulations within stages is very high, so will be the overall probability of success of preparing the food dish, due to the prior work, until all of the steps have been perfected and tested. For instance, to return to the above example, if each stage utilizes reliable standardized methods, and its success probability is 99% (instead of 90% as in the earlier example), then the overall probability of success will be (.99)10 - 90.4%, assuming there are 10 stages as before. This is clearly better than 28% probability of an overall correct outcome.
[00319] In another embodiment, more than one alternative method is provided for each stage, wherein, if one alternative fails, another alternative is tried. This requires dynamic monitoring to determine the success or failure of each stage, and the ability to have an alternate plan. The probability of success for that stage is the complement of the probability of failure for all of the alternatives, which mathematically is writt
Figure imgf000066_0001
[00320] In the above expression, is the stage and A(s,) is the set of alternatives for accomplishing The probability of failure for a given alternative is the complement of the probability of success for that alternative, namely 1 - P(s, | aj), and the probability of all the alternatives failing is the product in the above formula. Hence, the probability that not all will fail is the complement of the product. Using the method of alternatives, the overall probability of success can be estimated as the product of each stage with alternatives, namely:
Figure imgf000066_0002
[00321] With this method of alternatives, if each of the 10 stages had 4 alternatives, and the expected success of each alternative for each stage was 90%, then the overall probability of success would be (1 - (1 - (.9))4)10 = .99 or 99% versus just 28% without the alternatives. The method of alternatives transforms the original problem from a chain of stages with multiple single points of failure (if any stage fails) to one without single points of failure, since all the alternatives would need to fail in order for any given stage to fail, providing more robust outcomes.
[00322] In another embodiment, both standardized stages, comprising of standardized minimanipulations and alternate means of the food dish preparation stages, are combined, yielding a behavior that is even more robust. In such a case, the corresponding probability of success can be very high, even if alternatives are only present for some of the stages or minimanipulations.
[00323] In another embodiment only the stages with lower probability of success are provided alternatives, in case of failure, for instance stages for which there is no very reliable standardized method, or for which there is potential variability, e.g. depending on odd-shaped materials. This embodiment reduces the burden of providing alternatives to all stages.
[00324] FIG. 8F is a graphical diagram showing the probability of overall success (y-axis) as a function of the number of stages needed to cook a food dish (x-axis) for a first curve 458 illustrating a non- standardized kitchen 458 and a second curve 459 illustrating the standardized kitchen 50. In this example, the assumption made is that the individual probability of success per food preparation stage was 90% for a non-standardized operation and 99% for a standardized pre-programmed stage. The compounded error is much worse in the former case, as shown in the curve 458 compared to the curve 459.
[00325] FIG. 8G is a block diagram illustrating the execution of a recipe 460 with multi-stage robotic food preparation with minimanipulations and action primitives. Each food recipe 460 can be divided into a plurality of food preparation stages: a first food preparation stage Si 470, a second food preparation stage S2 ... an n-stage food preparation stage Sn 490, as executed by the robotic arms 70 and the robotic hands 72. The first food preparation stage Si 470 comprises one or more minimanipulations MMi 471, MM2472, and MM3473. Each minimanipulation includes one or more action primitives, which obtains a functional result. For example, the first minimanipulation MMi 471 includes a first action primitive APa 474, a second action primitive AP2 475, and a third action primitive AP3 475, which then achieves a functional result 477. The one or more minimanipulations M ! 471, MM2 472, MM3 473 in the first stage Sj 470 then accomplish a stage result 479. The combination of one or more food preparation stage Si 470, the second food preparation stage S2 and the n-stage food preparation stage Sn 490 produces substantially the same or the same result by replicating the food preparation process of the chef 49 as recorded in the chef studio 44.
[00326] A predefined minimanipulation is available to achieve each functional result (e.g., the egg is cracked). Each minimanipulation comprises of a collection of action primitives which act together to accomplish the functional result. For example, the robot may begin by moving its hand towards the egg, touching the egg to localize its position and verify its size, and executing the movements and sensing actions necessary to grasp and lift the egg into the known and predetermined configuration.
[00327] Multiple minimanipulations may be collected into stages such as making a sauce for convenience in understanding and organizing the recipe. The end result of executing ail of the minimanipulations to complete all of the stages is that a food dish has been replicated with a consistent result each time. [00328] FIG. 9A is a block diagram illustrating an example of the robotic hand 72 with five fingers and a wrist with RGB-D sensor, camera sensors and sonar sensor capabilities for detecting and moving a kitchen tool, an object, or an item of kitchen equipment. The palm of the robotic hand 72 includes an RGB-D sensor 500, a camera sensor or a sonar sensor 504f. Alternatively, the palm of the robotic hand 450 includes both the camera sensor and the sonar sensor. The RGB-D sensor 500 or the sonar sensor 504f is capable of detecting the location, dimensions and shape of the object to create a three-dimensional model of the object. For example, the RGB-D sensor 500 uses structured light to capture the shape of the object, three-dimensional mapping and localization, path planning, navigation, object recognition and people tracking. The sonar sensor 504f uses acoustic waves to capture the shape of the object. In conjunction with the camera sensor 452 and/or the sonar sensor 454, the video camera 66 placed somewhere in the robotic kitchen, such as on a railing, or on a robot, provides a way to capture, follow, or direct the movement of the kitchen tool as used by the chef 49, as illustrated in FIG. 7A. The video camera 66 is positioned at an angle and some distance away from the robotic hand 72, and therefore provides a higher-level view of the robotic hand's 72 gripping of the object, and whether the robotic hand has gripped or relinquished/released the object. A suitable example of RGB-D (a red light beam, a green light beam, a blue light beam, and depth) sensor is the Kinect system by Microsoft, which features an RGB camera, depth sensor and multi-array microphone running on software, which provide full-body 3D motion capture, facial recognition and voice recognition capabilities.
[00329] The robotic hand 72 has the RGB-D sensor 500 placed in or near the middle of the palm for detecting the distance and shape of an object, as well as the distance of the object, and for handling a kitchen tool. The RGB-D sensor 500 provides guidance to the robotic hand 72 in moving the robotic hand 72 toward the direction of the object and to make necessary adjustments to grab an object. Second, a sonar sensor 502f and/or a tactile pressure sensor are placed near the palm of the robotic hand 72, for detecting the distance and shape, and subsequent contact, of the object. The sonar sensor 502f can also guide the robotic hand 72 to move toward the object. Additional types of sensors in the hand may include ultrasonic sensors, lasers, radio frequency identification (RFID) sensors, and other suitable sensors. In addition, the tactile pressure sensor serves as a feedback mechanism so as to determine whether the robotic hand 72 continues to exert additional pressure to grab the object at such point where there is sufficient pressure to safely lift the object. In addition, the sonar sensor 502f in the palm of the robotic hand 72 provides a tactile sensing function to grab and handle a kitchen tool. For example, when the robotic hand 72 grabs a knife to cut beef, the amount of pressure that the robotic hand exerts on the knife and applies to the beef can be detected by the tactile sensor when the knife finishes slicing the beef, i.e. when the knife has no resistance, or when holding an object. The pressure distributed is not only to secure the object, but also not to break it (e.g. an egg).
[00330] Furthermore, each finger on the robotic hand 72 has haptic vibration sensors 502a-e and sonar sensors 504a-e on the respective fingertips, as shown by a first haptic vibration sensor 502a and a first sonar sensor 504a on the fingertip of the thumb, a second haptic vibration sensor 502b and a second sonar sensor 504b on the fingertip of the index finger, a third haptic vibration sensor 502c and a third sonar sensor 504c on the fingertip of the middle finger, a fourth haptic vibration sensor 502d and a fourth sonar sensor 504d on the fingertip of the ring finger, and a fifth haptic vibration sensor 502e and a fifth sonar sensor 504e on the fingertip of the pinky. Each of the haptic vibration sensors 502a, 502b, 502c, 502d and 502e can simulate different surfaces and effects by varying the shape, frequency, amplitude, duration and direction of a vibration. Each of the sonar sensors 504a, 504b, 504c, 504d and 504e provides sensing capability on the distance and shape of the object, sensing capability for the temperature or moisture, as well as feedback capability. Additional sonar sensors 504g and 504h are placed on the wrist of the robotic hand 72.
[00331] FIG. 9B is a block diagram illustrating one embodiment of a pan-tilt head 510 with a sensor camera 512 coupled to a pair of robotic arms and hands for operation in the standardized robotic kitchen. The pan-tilt head 510 has an RGB-D sensor 512 for monitoring, capturing or processing information and three-dimensional images within the standardized robotic kitchen 50. The pan-tilt head 510 provides good situational awareness, which is independent of arm and sensor motions. The pan-tilt head 510 is coupled to the pair of robotic arms 70 and hands 72 for executing food preparation processes, but the pair of robotic arms 70 and hands 72 may cause occlusions. In one embodiment, a robotic apparatus comprises one or more robotic arms 70 and one or more robotic hands (or robotic grippers) 72.
[00332] FIG. 9C is a block diagram illustrating sensor cameras 514 on the robotic wrists 73 for operation in the standardized robotic kitchen 50. One embodiment of the sensor cameras 514 is an RGB-D sensor that provides color image and depth perception mounted to the wrists 73 of the respective hand 72. Each of the camera sensors 514 on the respective wrist 73 provides limited occlusions by an arm, while generally not occluded when the robotic hand 72 grasps an object. However, the RGB-D sensors 514 may be occluded by the respective robotic hand 72. [00333] FIG. 9D is a block diagram illustrating an eye-in-hand 518 on the robotic hands 72 for operation in the standardized robotic kitchen 50. Each hand 72 has a sensor, such as an RGD-D sensor for providing an eye-in-hand function by the robotic hand 72 in the standardized robotic kitchen 50. The eye-in-hand 518 with RGB-D sensor in each hand provides high image details with limited occlusions by the respective robotic arm 70 and the respective robotic hand 72. However, the robotic hand 72 with the eye-in-hand 518 may encounter occlusions when grasping an object.
[00334] FIGS. 9E-G are pictorial diagrams illustrating aspects of a deformable palm 520 in the robotic hand 72. The fingers of a five-fingered hand are labeled with the thumb as a first finger Fl 522, the index finger as a second finger F2 524, the middle finger as a third finger F3 526, the ring finger as a fourth finger F4 528, and the little finger as a fifth finger F5 530. The thenar eminence 532 is a convex volume of deformable material on the radial (the first finger Fl 522) side of the hand. The hypothenar eminence 534 is a convex volume of deformable material on the ulnar (the fifth finger F5 530) side of the hand. The metacarpophalangeal pads (MCP pads) 536 are convex deformable volumes on the ventral (palmar) side of the metacarpophalangeal (knuckle) joints of second, third, fourth and fifth fingers F2 524, F3 526, F4 528, F5 530. The robotic hand 72 with the deformable palm 520 wears a glove on the outside with a soft human-like skin.
[00335] Together the thenar eminence 532 and hypothenar eminence 534 support application of large forces from the robot arm to an object in the working space such that application of these forces puts minimal stress on the robot hand joints (e.g., picture of the rolling pin). Extra joints within the palm 520 themselves are available to deform the palm. The palm 520 should deform in such a way as to enable the formation of an oblique palmar gutter for tool grasping in a way similar to a chef (typical handle grasp). The palm 520 should deform in such a way as to enable cupping, for conformable grasping of convex objects such as dishes and food materials in a manner similar to the chef, as shown by a cupping posture 542 in FIG. 9G.
[00336] Joints within the palm 520 that may support these motions include the thumb carpometacarpal joint (CMC), located on the radial side of the palm near the wrist, which may have two distinct directions of motion (flexion/extension and abduction/adduction). Additional joints required to support these motions may include joints on the ulnar side of the palm near the wrist (the fourth finger F4 528 and the fifth finger F5 530 CMC joints), which allow flexion at an oblique angle to support cupping motion at the hypothenar eminence 534 and formation of the palmar gutter. [00337] The robotic palm 520 may include additional/different joints as needed to replicate the palm shape observed in human cooking motions, e.g., a series of coupled flexure joints to support formation of an arch 540 between the thenar and hypothenar eminences 532 and 534 to deform the palm 520, such as when the thumb Fl 522 touches the pinky finger F5 530, as illustrated in FIG. 9F.
[00338] When the palm is cupped, the thenar eminence 532, the hypothenar eminence 534, and the MCP pads 536 form ridges around a palmar valley that enable the palm to close around a small spherical object (e.g., 2cm).
[00339] The shape of the deformable palm will be described using locations of feature points relative to a fixed reference frame, as shown in FIGS. 9H and 91. Each feature point is represented as a vector of x, y, and z coordinate positions over time. Feature point locations are marked on the sensing glove worn by the chef and on the sensing glove worn by the robot. A reference frame is also marked on the glove, as illustrated in FIGS. 9H and 91. Feature points are defined on a glove relative to the position of the reference frame.
[00340] Feature points are measured by calibrated cameras mounted in the workspace as the chef performs cooking tasks. Trajectories of feature points in time are used to match the chef motion with the robot motion, including matching the shape of the deformable palm. Trajectories of feature points from the chef's motion may also be used to inform robot deformable palm design, including shape of the deformable palm surface and placement and range of motion of the joints of the robot hand.
[00341] In the embodiment as depicted in FIG. 9H, the feature points are in the hypothenar eminence 534, the thenar eminence 532, and the MCP pad 536 are checkered patterns with markings that show the feature points in each region of the palm. The reference frame in the wrist area has four rectangles that are identifiable as a reference frame. The feature points (or markers) are identified in their respective locations relative to the reference frame. The feature points and reference frame in this embodiment can be implemented underneath a glove for food safety but transparent through the glove for detection.
[00342] FIG. 9H shows the robot hand with a visual pattern that may be used to determine the locations of three-dimensional shape feature points 550. The locations of these shape feature points provide information about the shape of the palm surface as the palm joints move and as the palm surface deforms in response to applied forces. [00343] The visual pattern comprises surface markings 552 on the robot hand or on a glove worn by the chef. These surface markings may be covered by a food safe transparent glove 554, but the surface markings 552 remain visible through the glove.
[00344] When the surface markings 552 are visible in a camera image, two-dimensional feature points may be identified within that camera image by locating convex or concave corners within the visual pattern. Each such corner in a single camera image is a two-dimensional feature point.
[00345] When the same feature point is identified in multiple camera images, the three-dimensional location of this point can be determined in a coordinate frame, which is fixed with respect to the standardized robotic kitchen 50. This calculation is performed based on the two-dimensional location of the point in each image and the known camera parameters (position, orientation, field of view, etc.).
[00346] A reference frame 556 fixed to the robotic hand 72 can be obtained using a reference frame visual pattern. In one embodiment, the reference frame 556 fixed to the robotic hand 72 comprises of an origin and three orthogonal coordinate axes. It is identified by locating features of the reference frame's visual pattern in multiple cameras, and using known parameters of the reference frame visual pattern and known parameters of the cameras to extract the origin and coordinate axes.
[00347] Three-dimensional shape feature points expressed in the coordinate frame of the food preparation station can be converted into the reference frame of the robot hand once the reference frame of the robot hand is observed.
[00348] The shape of the deformable palm is comprised of a vector of three-dimensional shape feature points, all of which are expressed in the reference coordinate frame fixed to the hand of the robot or the chef.
[00349] As illustrated in FIG. 91, the feature points 560 in the embodiments are represented by the sensors, such as Hall effect sensors, in the different regions (the hypothenar eminence 534, the thenar eminence 532, and the MCP pad 536 of the palm. The feature points are identifiable in their respective locations relative to the reference frame, which in this implementation is a magnet. The magnet produces magnetic fields that are readable by the sensors. The sensors in this embodiment are embedded underneath the glove.
[00350] FIG. 91 shows the robot hand 72 with embedded sensors and one or more magnets 562 that may be used as an alternative mechanism to determine the locations of three-dimensional shape feature points. One shape feature point is associated with each embedded sensor. The locations of these shape feature points 560 provide information about the shape of the palm surface as the palm joints move and as the palm surface deforms in response to applied forces.
[00351] Shape feature point locations are determined based on sensor signals. The sensors provide an output that allows calculation of distance in a reference frame, which is attached to the magnet, which furthermore is attached to the hand of the robot or the chef.
[00352] The three-dimensional location of each shape feature point is calculated based on the sensor measurements and known parameters obtained from sensor calibration. The shape of the deformable palm is comprised of a vector of three-dimensional shape feature points, all of which are expressed in the reference coordinate frame, which is fixed to the hand of the robot or the chef. For additional information on common contact regions on the human hand and function in grasping, see the material from Kamakura, Noriko, Michiko Matsuo, Harumi Ishii, Fumiko Mitsuboshi, and Yoriko Miura. "Patterns of static pretension in normal hands." American Journal of Occupational Therapy 34, no. 7 (1980): 437-445, which this reference is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
[00353] FIG. 10A is block diagram illustrating examples of chef recording devices 550 which the chef 49 wears in the standardized robotic kitchen environment 50 for recording and capturing the chef's movements during the food preparation process for a specific recipe. The chef recording devices 550 include, but are not limited to, one or more robot gloves (or robot garment) 26, a multimodal sensor unit 20 and a pair of robot glasses 552. In the chef studio system 44, the chef 49 wears the robot gloves 26 for cooking, recording, and capturing the chef's cooking movements. Alternatively, the chef 49 may wear a robotic costume with robotic gloves instead of just the robot gloves 26. In one embodiment, the robot glove 26, with embedded sensors, captures, records and saves the position, pressure and other parameters of the chef's arm, hand, and finger motions in a xyz-coordinate system with a time-stamp. The robot gloves 26 save the position and pressure of the arms and fingers of the chef 18 in a three- dimensional coordinate frame over a time duration from the start time to the end time in preparing a particular food dish. When the chef 49 wears the robotic gloves 26, all of the movements, the position of the hands, the grasping motions, and the amount of pressure exerted, in preparing a food dish in the chef studio system 44, are precisely recorded at a periodic time interval, such as every t seconds. The multimodal sensor unit(s) 20 include video cameras, IR cameras and rangefinders 306, stereo (or even trinocular) camera(s) 308 and multi-dimensional scanning lasers 310, and provide multi-spectral sensory data to the main software abstraction engines 312 (after being acquired and filtered in the data acquisition and filtering module 314). The multimodal sensor unit 20 generates a three-dimensional surface or texture, and processes abstraction model-data. The data is used in a scene understanding module 316 to carry out multiple steps such as (but not limited to) building high- and lower-resolution (laser: high-resolution; stereo-camera: lower-resolution) three-dimensional surface volumes of the scene, with superimposed visual and IR-spectrum color and texture video-information, allowing edge- detection and volumetric object-detection algorithms to infer what elements are in a scene, allowing the use of shape-/color-/texture- and consistency-mapping algorithms to run on the processed data to feed processed information to the Kitchen Cooking Process Equipment Handling Module 318. Optionally, in addition to the robot gloves 76, the chef 49 can wear a pair of robot glasses 552, which has one or more robot sensors 554 around the frame with a robot earpiece 556 and a microphone 558. The robot glasses 552 provide additional vision and capturing capabilities such as a camera for capturing video and recording images that the chef 49 sees while cooking a meal. The one or more robot sensors 554 capture and record temperature and smell of the meal that is being prepared. The earpiece 556 and the microphone 558 capture and record sounds that the chef 49 hears while cooking, which may include human voices, sounds characteristics of frying, grilling, grinding, etc. The chef 49 may also record simultaneous voice instructions and real-time cooking steps of the food preparation by using the earpiece and microphone 82. In this respect, the chef robot recorder devices 550 record the chef's movements, speed, temperature and sound parameters during the food preparation process for a particular food dish.
[00354] FIG. 10B is a flow diagram illustrating one embodiment of the process 560 in evaluating the captured of chef's motions with robot poses, motions and forces. A database 561 stores predefined (or predetermined) grasp poses 562 and predefined hand motions by the robotic arms 72 and the robotic hands 72, which are weighted by importance 564, labeled with points of contact 565, and stored contact forces 565. At operation 567, the chef movements recording module 98 is configured to capture the chefs motions in preparing a food dish based in part on the predefined grasp poses 562 and the predefined hand motions 563. At operation 568, the robotic food preparation engine 56 is configured to evaluate the robot apparatus configuration for its ability to achieve poses, motions and forces, and to accomplish minimanipulations. Subsequently, the robot apparatus configuration undergoes an iterative process 569 in assessing the robot design parameters 570, adjusting design parameters to improve the score and performance 571, and modifying the robot apparatus configuration 572. [00355] FIG. 11 is block diagram illustrating one embodiment of a side view of the robotic arm 70 for use with the standardized robotic kitchen system 50 in the household robotic kitchen 48. In other embodiments, one or more of the robotic arms 70, such as one arm, two arms, three arms, four arms, or more, can be designed for operation in the standardized robotic kitchen 50. The one or more software recipe files 46 from the chef studio system 44, which store a chef's arm, hand, and finger movements during food preparation, can be uploaded and converted into robotic instructions to control the one or more robotic arms 70 and the one or more robotic hands 72 to emulate the chef's movements for preparing a food dish that the chef has prepared. The robotic instructions control the robotic apparatus 75 to replicate the precise movements of the chef in preparing the same food dish. Each of the robotic arms 70 and each of the robotic hands 72 may also include additional features and tools, such as a knife, a fork, a spoon, a spatula, other types of utensils, or food preparation instruments to accomplish the food preparation process.
[00356] FIGS. 12A-C are block diagrams illustrating one embodiment of a kitchen handle 580 for use with the robotic hand 72 with the palm 520. The design of the kitchen handle 580 is intended to be universal (or standardized) so that the same kitchen handle 580 can attach to any type of kitchen utensils or tools, e.g. a knife, a spatula, a skimmer, a ladle, a draining spoon, a turner, etc. Different perspective views of the kitchen handle 580 are shown in FIGS. 12A-B. The robotic hand 72 grips the kitchen handle 580 as shown in FIG. 12C. Other types of standardized (or universal) kitchen handles may be designed without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure.
[00357] FIG. 13 is a pictorial diagram illustrating an example robotic hand 600 with tactile sensors 602 and distributed pressure sensors 604. During the food preparation process, the robotic apparatus 75 uses touch signals generated by sensors in the fingertips and the palms of a robot's hands to detect force, temperature, humidity and toxicity as the robot replicates step-by-step movements and compares the sensed values with the tactile profile of the chef's studio cooking program. Visual sensors help the robot to identify the surroundings and take appropriate cooking actions. The robotic apparatus 75 analyzes the image of the immediate environment from the visual sensors and compares it with the saved image of the chef's studio cooking program, so that appropriate movements are made to achieve identical results. The robotic apparatus 75 also uses different microphones to compare the chef's instructional speech to background noise from the food preparation processes to improve recognition performance during cooking. Optionally, the robot may have an electronic nose (not shown) to detect odor or flavor and surrounding temperature. For example, the robotic hand 600 is capable of differentiating a real egg by surface texture, temperature and weight signals generated by haptic sensors in the fingers and palm, and is thus able to apply the proper amount of force to hold an egg without breaking it, as well as performing a quality check by shaking and listening for sloshing, cracking the egg and observing and smelling the yolk and albumen to determine the freshness. The robotic hand 600 then may take action to dispose of a bad egg or select a fresh egg. The sensors 602 and 604 on hands, arms, and head enable the robot to move, touch, see and hear to execute the food preparation process using external feedback and obtain a result in the food dish preparation that is identical to the chefs studio cooking result.
[00358] FIG. 14 is a pictorial diagram illustrating an example of a sensing costume 620 (for the chef 49 to wear at the standardized robotic kitchen 50. During the food preparation of a food dish, as recorded by a software file 46, the chef 49 wears the sensing costume 620 for capturing the real-time chefs food preparation movements in a time sequence. The sensing costume 620 may include, but is not limited to, a haptic suit 622 (shown one full-length arm and hand costume)[again, no number like that in there], haptic gloves 624, a multimodal sensor(s) 626 [no such number], a head costume 628. The haptic suit 622 with sensors is capable of capturing data from the chefs movements and transmitting captured data to the computer 16 to record the xyz coordinate positions and pressure of human arms 70 and hands/fingers 72 in the XYZ-coordinate system with a time-stamp. The sensing costume 620 also senses and the computer 16 records the position, velocity and forces/torques and endpoint contact behavior of human arms 70 and hands/fingers 72 in a robot-coordinate frame with and associates them with a system timestamp, for correlating with the relative positions in the standardized robotic kitchen 50 with geometric sensors (laser, 3D stereo, or video sensors). The haptic glove 624 with sensors is used to capture, record and save force, temperature, humidity, and toxicity signals detected by tactile sensors in the gloves 624. The head costume 628 includes feedback devices with vision camera, sonar, laser, or radio frequency identification (RFID) and a custom pair of glasses that are used to sense, capture, and transmit the captured data to the computer 16 for recording and storing images that the chef 48 observes during the food preparation process. In addition, the head costume 628 also includes sensors for detecting the surrounding temperature and smell signatures in the standardized robotic kitchen 50. Furthermore, the head costume 628 also includes an audio sensor for capturing the audio that the chef 49 hears, such as sound characteristics of frying, grinding, chopping, etc.
[00359] FIGS. 15A-B are pictorial diagrams illustrating one embodiment of a three-finger haptic glove 630 with sensors for food preparation by the chef 49 and an example of a three-fingered robotic hand 640 with sensors. The embodiment illustrated herein shows the simplified robotic hand 640, which has less than five fingers for food preparation. Correspondingly, the complexity in the design of the simplified robotic hand 640 would be significantly reduced, as well as the cost to manufacture the simplified robotic hand 640. Two finger grippers or four-finger robotic hands, with or without an opposing thumb, are also possible alternate implementations. In this embodiment, the chef's hand movements are limited by the functionalities of the three fingers, thumb, index finder and middle finger, where each finger has a sensor 632 for sensing data of the chef's movement with respect to force, temperature, humidity, toxicity or tactile-sensation. The three-finger haptic glove 630 also includes point sensors or distributed pressure sensors in the palm area of the three-finger haptic glove 630. The chef's movements in preparing a food dish wearing the three-finger haptic glove 630 using the thumb, the index finger, and the middle fingers are recorded in a software file. Subsequently, the three-fingered robotic hand 640 replicates the che s movements from the converted software recipe file into robotic instructions for controlling the thumb, the index finger and the middle finger of the robotic hand 640 while monitoring sensors 642b on the fingers and sensors 644 on the palm of the robotic hand 640. The sensors 642 include a force, temperature, humidity, toxicity or tactile sensor, while the sensors 644 can be implemented with point sensors or distributed pressure sensors.
[00360] FIG. 15C is a block diagram illustrating one example of the interplay and interactions between the robotic arm 70 and the robotic hand 72. A compliant robotic arm 750 provides a smaller payload, higher safety, more gentle actions, but less precision. An anthropomorphic robotic hand 752 provides more dexterity, capable of handling human tools, is easier to retarget for a human hand motion, more compliant, but the design requires more complexity, increase in weight, and higher product cost. A simple robotic hand 754 is lighter in weight, less expensive, with lower dexterity, and not able to use human tools directly. An industrial robotic arm 756 is more precise, with higher payload capacity but generally not considered safe around humans and can potentially exert a large amount of force and cause harm. One embodiment of the standardized robotic kitchen 50 is to utilize a first combination of the compliant arm 750 with the anthropomorphic hand 752. The other three combinations are generally less desirable for implementation of the present disclosure.
[00361] FIG. 15D is a block diagram illustrating the robotic hand 72 using the standardized kitchen handle 580 to attach to a custom cookware head and the robotic arm 70 affixable to kitchen ware. In one technique to grab a kitchen ware, the robotic hand 72 grabs the standardized kitchen tool 580 for attaching to any one of the custom cookware heads from the illustrated choices of 760a, 760b, 760c, 760d, 760e, and others. For example, the standardized kitchen handle 580 is attached to the custom spatula head 760e for use to stir-fry the ingredients in a pan. In one embodiment, the standardized kitchen handle 580 can be held by the robotic hand 72 in just one position, which minimizes the potential confusion in different ways to hold the standardized kitchen handle 580. In another technique to grab a kitchen ware, the robotic arm has one or more holders 762 that are affixable to a kitchen ware 762, where the robotic arm 70 is able to exert more forces if necessary in pressing the kitchen ware 762 during the robotic hand motion.
[00362] FIG. 16 is a block diagram illustrating a creation module 650 of a minimanipulation library database and an execution module 660 of the minimanipulation library database. The creation module 60 of the minimanipulation database library is a process of creating, testing various possible combinations, and selecting an optimal minimanipulation to achieve a specific functional result. One objective of the creation module 60 is to explore all different possible combinations in performing a specific minimanipulation and predefine a library of optimal minimanipulations for subsequent execution by the robotic arms 70 and the robotic hands 72 in preparing a food dish. The creation module 650 of the minimanipulation library can also be used as a teaching method for the robotic arms 70 and the robotic hands 72 to learn about the different food preparation functions from the minimanipulation library database. The execution modules 660 of the minimanipulations library database is configured to provide a range of minimanipulation functions which the robotic apparatus 75 can access and execute from the minimanipulations library database containing a first minimanipulation MMiWith a first functional outcome 662, a second minimanipulation MM2 with a second functional outcome 664, a third minimanipulation MM3 with a third functional outcome 666, a fourth minimanipulation MM4 with a fourth functional outcome 668, and a fifth minimanipulation MM5 with a fifth functional outcome 670, during the process of preparing a food dish.
[00363] Generalized Minimanipulations: A generalized minimanipulation comprises a well-defined sequence of sensing and actuator actions with an expected functional outcome. Associated with each minimanipulation we have a set of pre-conditions and a set of post-conditions. The pre-conditions assert what must be true in the world state in order to enable the minimanipulation to take place. The postconditions are changes to the world state brought about by the minimanipulations.
[00364] For instance, the minimanipulation for grasping a small object would comprise observing the location and orientation of the object, moving the robotic hand (the gripper) to align it with the object's position, applying the requisite force based on the object's weight and rigidity, and moving the arm upwards.
[00365] In this example, the preconditions include having a graspable object located within reach of the robotic hand, and its weight being within the lifting capabilities of the arm. The postconditions are that the object is no longer resting on the surface where it was found previously and it is now held by to robot's hand.
[00366] More generally, a generalized minimanipulation M comprises triple <PRE, ACT, POST>, where PRE = {s1( s2» is a set of items in the world state that must be true before the actions
ACT = [ax a2, ak] can take place, and result in a set of changes to the world state denoted as POST = p1 p2,—, Vm}. Note that (square brackets] mean sequences, and {curly brackets} mean unordered sets. Each post condition may also have a probability in case the outcome is less than certain. For instance the minimanipulation for grasping an egg may have a 0.99 probability that the egg is in the hand of the robot (the remaining .01 probability may correspond to inadvertently breaking the egg while attempting to grasp it, or other unwanted consequence).
[00367] Even more generally, a minimanipulation can include other (smaller) minimanipulations in its sequence of actions instead of just atomic or basic robotic sensing or actuating. In such a case, the minimanipulation would comprise the sequence: ACT = [ .1 τη2,πι3·— ·
Figure imgf000079_0001
where basic actions denoted by "o's" are interspersed with minimanipulations denoted by "m's". In such a case, the post condition set would be satisfied by the union of the preconditions for its basic actions and the union of the preconditions of all of its sub-minimanipulations.
[00368] PRE = PREa U (UmieACT PREim^))
[00369] The postconditions would of the generalized minimanipulation would be determined in a similar manner, that is:
[00370] POST = POSTa U { mi6ACT POST^m^)
[00371] Of note is that the preconditions and postconditions refer to specific aspects of the physical world (locations, orientation, weights, shapes, etc.), rather than just being mathematical symbols. In other words, the software and algorithms that implement selection and assembly of minimanipulations have direct effects on the robotic machinery, which in turn has directs effects on the physical world.
[00372] In one embodiment, when specifying the threshold performance of a minimanipulation, whether generalized or basic, the measurements are performed on the POST conditions, comparing the actual result to the optimal result. For instance, in the task of assembly if a part is positioned within 1% of its desired orientation and location and the threshold of performance was 2%, then the minimanipulation is successful. Similarly, if the threshold were 0.5% in the above example, then the minimanipulation is unsuccessful.
[00373] In another embodiment, instead of specifying a threshold performance for a minimanipulation, an acceptable range is defined for the parameters of the POST conditions, and the minimanipulation is successful if the resulting value of the parameters after executing the minimanipulation fall within the specified range. These ranges are task dependent and specified for each task. For instance, in the assembly task, the position of a part may be specified within a range (or tolerance), such as between 0 and 2 millimeters of another part, and the minimanipulation is successful if it the final location of the part is within the range.
[00374] In a third embodiment a minimanipulation is successful if its POST conditions match PRE conditions of the next minimanipulation in the robotic task. For instance, if the POST condition in the assembly task of one minimanipulation places a new part 1 millimeter from a previously placed part and the next minimanipulation (e.g. welding) has a PRE condition that specifies the parts must be within 2 millimeters, then the first minimanipulation was successful.
[00375] In general, the preferred embodiments for all minimanipulations, basic and generalized, that are stored in the minimanipulation library have been designed, programmed and tested in order that they be performed successfully in foreseen circumstances.
[00376] Tasks comprising of minimanipulations: A robotic task is comprised of one or (typically) multiple minimanipulations. These minimanipulations may execute sequentially, in parallel, or adhering to a partial order. "Sequentially" means that each step is completed before the subsequent one is started. "In parallel" means that the robotic device can execute the steps simultaneously or in any order. A "partial order" means that some steps must be performed in sequence - those specified in the partial order - and the rest can be executed before, after, or during the steps specified in the atrial order. A partial order is defined in the standard mathematical sense as a set of steps S and ordering constraints among some of the steps s, - Sj meaning that step i must be executed before step j. These steps can be minimanipulations or combinations of minimanipulations. For instance in a robotic chef, if two ingredients must be placed in a bowl and the mixed. There are ordering constraint that each ingredient must be placed in the bowl before mixing, but no ordering constraint on which ingredient is placed first into the mixing bowl. [00377] FIG. 17A is a block diagram illustrating a sensing glove 680 used by the chef 49 to sense and capture the chef's movements while preparing a food dish. The sensing glove 680 has a plurality of sensors 682a, 682b, 682c, 682d, 682e on each of the fingers, and a plurality of sensors 682f, 682g, in the palm area of the sensing glove 680. In one embodiment, the at least 5 pressure sensors 682a, 682b, 682c, 682d, 682e inside the soft glove are used for capturing and analyzing the chef's movements during all hand manipulations. The plurality of sensors 682a, 682b, 682c, 682d, 682e, 682f, and 682g in this embodiment are embedded in the sensing glove 680 but transparent to the material of the sensing glove 680 for external sensing. The sensing glove 680 may have feature points associated with the plurality of sensors 682a, 682b, 682c, 682d, 682e, 682f, 682g that reflect the hand curvature (or relief) of various higher and lower points in the sensing glove 680. The sensing glove 680, which is placed over the robotic hand 72, is made of soft materials that emulate the compliance and shape of human skin. Additional description elaborating on the robotic hand 72 can be found in FIG. 9A.
[00378] The robotic hand 72 includes a camera senor 684, such as an RGB-D sensor, an imaging sensor or a visual sensing device, placed in or near the middle of the palm for detecting the distance and shape of an object, as well as the distance of the object, and for handling a kitchen tool. The imaging sensor 682f provides guidance to the robotic hand 72 in moving the robotic hand 72 towards the direction of the object and to make necessary adjustments to grab an object. In addition, a sonar sensor, such as a tactile pressure sensor, may be placed near the palm of the robotic hand 72, for detecting the distance and shape of the object. The sonar sensor 682f can also guide the robotic hand 72 to move toward the object. Each of the sonar sensors 682a, 682b, 682c, 682d, 682e, 682f, 682g includes ultrasonic sensors, laser, radio frequency identification (RFID), and other suitable sensors. In addition, each of the sonar sensors 682a, 682b, 682c, 682d, 682e, 682f, 682g serves as a feedback mechanism to determine whether the robotic hand 72 continues to exert additional pressure to grab the object at such point where there is sufficient pressure to grab and lift the object. In addition, the sonar sensor 682f in the palm of the robotic hand 72 provides tactile sensing function to handle a kitchen tool. For example, when the robotic hand 72 grabs a knife to cut beef, the amount of pressure that the robotic hand 72 exerts on the knife and applies to the beef, allows the tactile sensor to detect when the knife finishes slicing the beef, i.e., when the knife has no resistance. The distributed pressure is not only to secure the object, but also so as not to exert too much pressure so as to, for example, not to break an egg). Furthermore, each finger on the robotic hand 72 has a sensor on the finger tip, as shown by the first sensor 682a on the finger tip of the thumb, the second sensor 682b on the finger tip of the index finger, the third sensor 682c on the finger tip of the middle finger, the fourth sensor 682d on the finger tip of the ring finger, and the fifth sensor 682f on the finger tip of the pinky. Each of the sensors 682a, 682b, 682c, 682d, 682e provide sensing capability on the distance and shape of the object, sensing capability for temperature or moisture, as well as tactile feedback capability.
[00379] The RGB-D sensor 684 and the sonar sensor 682f in the palm, plus the sonar sensors 682a, 682b, 682c, 682d, 682e in the fingertip of each finger, provide a feedback mechanism to the robotic hand 72 as a means to grab a non-standardized object, or a non-standardized kitchen tool. The robotic hands 72 may adjust the pressure to a sufficient degree to grab ahold of the non-standardized object. A program library 690 that stores sample grabbing functions 692, 694, 696 according to a specific time interval for which the robotic hand 72 can draw from in performing a specific grabbing function, is illustrated in FIG. 17B. FIG. 17B is a block diagram illustrating a library database 690 of standardized operating movements in the standardized robotic kitchen module 50. Standardized operating movements, which are predefined and stored in the library database 690, include grabbing, placing, and operating a kitchen tool or a piece of kitchen equipment, with motion/interaction time profiles 698.
[00380] FIG. 18A is a graphical diagram illustrating that each of the robotic hands 72 is coated with a artificial human-like soft-skin glove 700. The artificial human-like soft-skin glove 700 includes a plurality of embedded sensors that are transparent and sufficient for the robot hands 72 to perform high-level minimanipulations. In one embodiment, the soft-skin glove 700 includes ten or more sensors to replicate a chefs hand movements.
[00381] FIGS. 18B is a block diagram illustrating robotic hands coated with artificial human-like skin gloves to execute high-level minimanipulations based on a library database 720 of minimanipulations, which have been predefined and stored in the library database 720. High-level minimanipulations refer to a sequence of action primitives requiring a substantial amount of interaction movements and interaction forces and control over the same. Three examples of minimanipulations are provided, which are stored in the database library 720. The first example of minimanipulation is to use the pair of robotic hands 72 to knead the dough 722. The second example of minimanipulation is to use the pair of robotic hands 72 to make ravioli 724. The third example of minimanipulation is to use the pair of robotic hands 72 to make sushi 726. Each of the three examples of minimanipulations has motion/interaction time profiles 728 that are tracked by the computer 16.
[00382] FIG. 18C is a graphical diagram illustrating three types of taxonomy of manipulation actions for food preparation with continuous trajectory of the robotic arm 70 and the robotic hand 72 motions and forces that result in a desired goal state. The robotic arm 70 and the robotic hand 72 execute rigid grasping and transfer 730 movements for picking up an object with an immovable grasp and transferring them to a goal location without the need for a forceful interaction. Examples of a rigid grasping and transfer include putting the pan on the stove, picking up the salt shaker, shaking salt into the dish, dropping ingredients into a bowl, pouring the contents out of a container, tossing a salad, and flipping a pancake. The robotic arm 70 and the robotic hand 72 execute a rigid grasp with forceful interaction 732 where there is a forceful contact between two surfaces or objects. Examples of a rigid grasp with forceful interaction include stirring a pot, opening a box, and turning a pan, and sweeping items from a cutting board into a pan. The robotic arm 70 and the robotic hand 72 execute a forceful interaction with deformation 734 where there is a forceful contact between two surfaces or objects that results in the deformation of one of two surfaces, such as cutting a carrot, breaking an egg, or rolling dough. For additional information on the function of the human hand, deformation of the human palm, and its function in grasping, see the material from I. A. Kapandji, "The Physiology of the Joints, Volume 1: Upper Limb, 6e," Churchill Livingstone, 6 edition, 2007, which this reference is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
[00383] FIG. 18D is a simplified flow diagram illustrating one embodiment on taxonomy of manipulation actions for food preparation in kneading dough 740. Kneading dough 740 may be a minimanipulation that has been previously predefined in the library database of minimanipulations. The process of kneading dough 740 comprises a sequence of actions (or short minimanipulations), including grasping the dough 742, placing the dough on a surface 744, and repeating the kneading action until one obtains a desired shape 746.
[00384] FIG. 19 is a block diagram illustrating an example of a database library structure 770 of a minimanipulation that results in "cracking an egg with a knife." The minimanipulation 770 of cracking an egg includes how to hold an egg in the right position 772, how to hold a knife relative to the egg 774, what is the best angle to strike the egg with the knife 776, and how to open the cracked egg 778. Various possible parameters for each 772, 774, 776, and 778, are tested to find the best way to execute a specific movement. For example in holding an egg 772, the different positions, orientations, and ways to hold an egg are tested to find an optimal way to hold the egg. Second, the robotic hand 72 picks up the knife from a predetermined location. The holding the knife 774 is explored as to the different positions, orientations, and the way to hold the knife in order to find an optimal way to handle the knife. Third, the striking the egg with knife 776 is also tested for the various combinations of striking the knife on the egg to find the best way to strike the egg with the knife. Consequently, the optimal way to execute the minimanipulation of cracking an egg with a knife 770 is stored in the library database of minimanipulations. The saved minimanipulation of cracking an egg with a knife 770 would comprise the best way to hold the egg 772, the best way to hold the knife 774, and the best way to strike the knife with the egg 776.
[00385] To create the minimanipulation that results in cracking an egg with a knife, multiple parameter combinations must be tested to identify a set of parameters that ensure the desired functional result - that the egg is cracked - is achieved. In this example, parameters are identified to determine how to grasp and hold an egg in such a way so as not to crush it. An appropriate knife is selected through testing, and suitable placements are found for the fingers and palm so that it may be held for striking. A striking motion is identified that will successfully crack an egg. An opening motion and/or force are identified that allows a cracked egg to be opened successfully.
[00386] The teaching / learning process for the robotic apparatus 75 involves multiple and repetitive tests to identify the necessary parameters to achieve the desired final functional result.
[00387] These tests may be performed over varying scenarios. For example, the size of the egg can vary. The location at which it is to be cracked can vary. The knife may be at different locations. The minimanipulations must be successful in all of these variable circumstances.
[00388] Once the learning process has been completed, results are stored as a collection of action primitives that together are known to accomplish the desired functional result.
[00389] FIG. 20 is a block diagram illustrating an example of recipe execution 780 for a mini manipulation with real-time adjustment by three-dimensional modeling of non-standard objects 112. In recipe execution 780, the robotic hands 72 execute the minimanipulations 770 of cracking an egg with a knife, where the optimal way to execute each movement in the cracking an egg operation 772, the holding a knife operation 774, the striking the egg with a knife operation 776, and opening the cracked egg operation 778 is selected from the minimanipulations library database. The process of executing the optimal way to carry out each of the movements 772, 774, 776, 778 ensures that the minimanipulation 770 will achieve the same (or guarantee of), or substantially the same, outcome for that specific minimanipulation. The multimodal three-dimensional sensor 20 provides real-time adjustment capabilities 112 as to the possible variations in one or more ingredients, such as the dimension and weight of an egg. [00390] As an example of the operative relationship between the creation of a minimanipulation in FIG. 19 and the execution of the minimanipulation in FIG. 20, specific variables associated with the minimanipulation of "cracking an egg with a knife ," includes an initial xyz coordinates of egg, an initial orientation of the egg, the size of the egg, the shape of the egg, an initial xyz coordinate of the knife, an initial orientation of the knife, the xyz coordinates where to crack the egg, speed, and the time duration of the minimanipulation. The identified variables of the minimanipulation, "crack an egg with a knife," are thus defined during the creation phase, where these identifiable variables may be adjusted by the robotic food preparation engine 56 during the execution phase of the associated minimanipulation.
[00391] FIG. 21 is a flow diagram illustrating the software process 782 to capture a chef's food preparation movements in a standardized kitchen module to produce the software recipe files 46 from the chef studio 44. In the chef studio 44, at step 784, the chef 49 designs the different components of a food recipe. At step 786, the robotic cooking engine 56 is configured to receive the name, ID ingredient, and measurement inputs for the recipe design that the chef 49 has selected. At step 788, the chef 49 moves food/ingredients into designated standardized cooking ware/appliances and into their designated positions. For example, the chef 49 may pick two medium shallots and two medium garlic cloves, place eight crimini mushrooms on the chopping counter, and move two 20 cm x 30 cm puff pastry units thawed from freezer lock F02 to a refrigerator (fridge). At step 790, the chef 49 wears the capturing gloves 26 or the haptic costume 622, which has sensors that capture the chefs movement data for transmission to the computer 16. At step 792, the chef 49 starts working the recipe that he or she selects from step 122. At step 794, the chef movement recording module 98 is configured to capture and record the chefs precise movements, including measurements of the chefs arms and fingers' force, pressure, and XYZ positions and orientations in real time in the standardized robotic kitchen 50. In addition to capturing the chef's movements, pressure, and positions, the chef movement recording module 98 is configured to record video (of dish, ingredients, process, and interaction images) and sound (human voice, frying hiss, etc.) during the entire food preparation process for a particular recipe. At step 796, the robotic cooking engine 56 is configured to store the captured data from step 794, which includes the chefs movements from the sensors on the capturing gloves 26 and the multimodal three- dimensional sensors 30. At step 798, the recipe abstraction software module 104 is configured to generate a recipe script suitable for machine implementation. At step 799, after the recipe data has been generated and saved, the software recipe file 46 is made available for sale or subscription to users via an app store or marketplace to a user's computer located at home or in a restaurant, as well as integrating the robotic cooking receipt app on a mobile device.
[00392] FIG. 22 is a flow diagram 800 illustrating the software process for food preparation by the robotic apparatus 75 in the robotic standardized kitchen with the robotic apparatus 75 based one or more of the software recipe files 22 received from chef studio system 44. At step 802, the user 24 through the computer 15 selects a recipe bought or subscribed to from the chef studio 44. At step 804, the robot food preparation engine 56 in the household robotic kitchen 48 is configured to receive inputs from the input module 50 for the selected recipe to be prepared. At step 806, the robot food preparation engine 56 in the household robotic kitchen 48 is configured to upload the selected recipe into the memory module 102 with software recipe files 46. At step 808, the robot food preparation engine 56 in the household robotic kitchen 48 is configured to calculate the ingredient availability to complete the selected recipe and the approximate cooking time required to finish the dish. At step 810, the robot food preparation engine 56 in the household robotic kitchen 48 is configured to analyze the prerequisites for the selected recipe and decides whether there is any shortage or lack of ingredients, or insufficient time to serve the dish according to the selected recipe and serving schedule. If the prerequisites are not met, at step 812, the robot food preparation engine 56 in the household robotic kitchen 48 sends an alert, indicating that the ingredients should be added to a shopping list, or offers an alternate recipe or serving schedules. However, if the prerequisites are met, the robot food preparation engine 56 is configured to confirm the recipe selection at step 814. At step 816, after the recipe selection has been confirmed, the user 60 through the computer 16 moves the food/ingredients to specific standardized containers and into the required positions. After the ingredients have been placed in the designated containers and the positions as identified, the robot food preparation engine 56 in the household robotic kitchen 48 is configured to check if the start time has been triggered at step 818. At this juncture, the household robot food preparation engine 56 offers a second process check to ensure that all the prerequisites are being met. If the robot food preparation engine 56 in the household robotic kitchen 48 is not ready to start the cooking process, the household robot food preparation engine 56 continues to check the prerequisites at step 820 until the start time has been triggered. If the robot food preparation engine 56 is ready to start the cooking process, at step 822, the quality check for raw food module 96 in the robot food preparation engine 56 is configured to process the prerequisites for the selected recipe and inspects each ingredient item against the description of the recipe (e.g. one center-cut beef tenderloin roast) and condition (e.g. expiration/purchase date, odor, color, texture, etc.). At step 824, the robot food preparation engine 56 sets the time at a "0" stage and uploads the software recipe file 46 to the one or more robotic arms 70 and the robotic hands 72 for replicating the chef's cooking movements to produce a selected dish according to the software recipe file 46. At step 826, the one or more robotic arms 72 and hands 74 process ingredients and execute the cooking method/technique with identical movements as that of the chef's 49 arms, hands and fingers, with the exact pressure, the precise force, and the same XYZ position, at the same time increments as captured and recorded from the che s movements. During this time, the one or more robotic arms 70 and hands 72 compare the results of cooking against the controlled data (such as temperature, weight, loss, etc.) and the media data (such as color, appearance, smell, portion-size, etc.), as illustrated in step 828. After the data has been compared, the robotic apparatus 75 (including the robotic arms 70 and the robotic hands 72) aligns and adjusts the results at step 830. At step 832, the robot food preparation engine 56 is configured to instruct the robotic apparatus 75 to move the completed dish to the designated serving dishes and placing the same on the counter.
[00393] FIG. 23 is a flow diagram illustrating one embodiment of the software process for creating, testing, and validating, and storing the various parameter combinations for a minimanipulation library database 840. The minimanipulation library database 840 involves a one-time success test process 840 (e.g., holding an egg), which is stored in a temporary library, and testing the combination of one-time test results 860 (e.g., the entire movements of cracking an egg) in the minimanipulation database library. At step 842, the computer 16 creates a new minimanipulation (e.g., crack an egg) with a plurality of action primitives (or a plurality of discrete recipe actions). At step 844, the number of objects (e.g., an egg and a knife) associated with the new minimanipulation are identified. The computer 16 identifies a number of discrete actions or movements at step 846. At step 848, the computer selects a full possible range of key parameters (such as the positions of an object, the orientations of the object, pressure, and speed) associated with the particular new minimanipulation. At step 850, for each key parameter, the computer 16 tests and validates each value of the key parameters with all possible combinations with other key parameters (e.g., holding an egg in one position but testing other orientations). At step 852, the computer 16 is configured to determine if the particular set of key parameter combinations produces a reliable result. The validation of the result can be done by the computer 16 or a human. If the determination is negative, the computer 16 proceeds to step 856 to find if there are other key parameter combinations that have yet to be tested. At step 858, the computer 16 increments a key parameter by one in formulating the next parameter combination for further testing and evaluation for the next parameter combination. If the determination at step 852 is positive, the computer 16 then stores the set of successful key parameter combinations in a temporary location library at step 854. The temporary location library stores one or more sets of successful key parameter combinations (that have either the most successful or optimal test or have the least failed results).
[00394] At step 862, the computer 16 tests and validates the specific successful parameter combination for X number of times (such as one hundred times). At step 864, the computer 16 computes the number of failed results during the repeated test of the specific successful parameter combination. At step 866, the computer 16 selects the next one-time successful parameter combination from the temporary library, and returns the process back to step 862 for testing the next one-time successful parameter combination X number of times. If no further one-time successful parameter combination remains, the computer 16 stores the test results of one or more sets of parameter combinations that produce a reliable (or guaranteed) result at step 868. If there are more than one reliable sets of parameter combinations, at step 870, the computer 16 determines the best or optimal set of parameter combinations and stores the optimal set of parameter combination which is associated with the specific minimanipulation for use in the minimanipulation library database by the robotic apparatus 75 in the standardized robotic kitchen 50 during the food preparation stages of a recipe.
[00395] FIG. 24 is a flow diagram illustrating one embodiment of the software process 880 for creating the tasks for a minimanipulation. At step 882, the computer 16 defines a specific robotic task (e.g. cracking an egg with a knife) with a robotic mini hand manipulator to be stored in a database library. The computer at step 884 identifies all different possible orientations of an object in each mini step (e.g. orientation of an egg and holding the egg) and at step 886 identifies all different positional points to hold a kitchen tool against the object (e.g. holding the knife against the egg). At step 888, the computer empirically identifies all possible ways to hold an egg and to break the egg with the knife with the right (cutting) movement profile, pressure, and speed. At step 890, the computer 16 defines the various combinations to hold the egg and positioning of the knife against the egg in order to properly break the egg (for example, finding the combination of optimal parameters such as orientation, position, pressure, and speed of the object(s)). At step 892, the computer 16 conducts training and testing process to verify the reliability of various combinations, such as testing all the variations, variances, and repeats the process X times until the reliability is certain for each minimanipulation. When the chef 49 is performing certain food preparation task, (e.g. cracking an egg with a knife) the task is translated to several steps/tasks of mini-hand manipulation to perform as part of the task at step 894. At step 896, the computer 16 stores the various combinations of minimanipulations for that specific task in the database library. At step 898, the computer 16 determines whether there are additional tasks to be defined and performed for any minimanipulations. The process returns to step 882 if there are any additional minimanipulations to be defined. Different embodiments of the kitchen module are possible, including a standalone kitchen module and an integrated robotic kitchen module. The integrated robotic kitchen module is fitted into a conventional kitchen area of a typical house. The robotic kitchen module operates in at least two modes, a robotic mode and a normal (manual) mode. Cracking an egg is one example of a minimanipulation. The minimanipulation library database would also apply to a wide a variety of tasks, such as using a fork to grab a slab of beef by applying the right pressure in the right direction and to the proper depth to the shape and depth of the meat. At step 900, the computer combines the database library of predefined kitchen tasks, where each predefined kitchen task comprises one or more minimanipulations.
[00396] FIG. 25 is a flow diagram illustrating the process 920 of assigning and utilizing a library of standardized kitchen tools, standardized objects, and standardized equipment in a standardized robotic kitchen. At step 922, the computer 16 assigns each kitchen tool, object, or equipment/utensil with a code (or bar code) that predefines the parameters of the tool, object, or equipment such as its three- dimensional position coordinates and orientation. This process standardizes the various elements in the standardized robotic kitchen 50, including but not limited to: standardized kitchen equipment, standardized kitchen tools, standardized knifes, standardized forks, standardized containers, standardized pans, standardized appliances, standardized working spaces, standardized attachments, and other standardized elements. When executing the process steps in a cooking recipe, at step 924, the robotic cooking engine is configured to direct one or more robotic hands to retrieve a kitchen tool, an object, a piece of equipment, a utensil, or an appliance when prompted to access that particular kitchen tool, object, equipment, utensil or appliance, according to the food preparation process for a specific recipe.
[00397] FIG. 26 is a flow diagram illustrating the process 926 of identifying a non-standard object through three-dimensional modeling and reasoning. At step 928, the computer 16 detects a nonstandard object by a sensor, such as an ingredient that may have a different size, different dimensions, and/or different weight. At step 930, the computer 16 identifies the non-standard object with three- dimensional modeling sensors 66 to capture shape, dimensions, orientation and position information and robotic hands 72 make a real-time adjustment to perform the appropriate food preparation tasks (e.g. cutting or picking up a piece of steak).
[00398] FIG. 27 is a flow diagram illustrating the process 932 for testing and learning of minimanipulations. At step 934, the computer performs a food preparation task composition analysis in which each cooking operation (e.g. cracking an egg with a knife) is analyzed, decomposed, and constructed into a sequence of action primitives or minimanipulations. In one embodiment, a minimanipulation refers to a sequence of one or more action primitives that accomplish a basic functional outcome (e.g., the egg has been cracked, or a vegetable sliced) that advances toward a specific result in preparing a food dish. In this embodiment, a minimanipulation can be further described as a low-level minimanipulation or a high-level minimanipulation where a low-level minimanipulation refers to a sequence of action primitives that requires minimal interaction forces and relies almost exclusively on the use of the robotic apparatus 75, and a high-level minimanipulation refers to a sequence of action primitives requiring a substantial amount of interaction and interaction forces and control thereof. The process loop 936 focuses on minimanipulation and learning steps and comprises tests, which are repeated many times (e.g. 100 times) to ensure the reliability of minimanipulations. At step 938, the robotic food preparation engine 56 is configured to assess the knowledge of all possibilities to perform a food preparation stage or a minimanipulation, where each minimanipulation is tested with respect to orientations, positions/velocities, angles, forces, pressures, and speeds with a particular minimanipulation. A minimanipulation or an action primitive may involve the robotic hand 72 and a standard object, or the robotic hand 72 and a nonstandard object. At step 940, the robotic food preparation engine 56 is configured to execute the minimanipulation and determine if the outcome can be deemed successful or a failure. At step 942, the computer 16 conducts an automated analysis and reasoning about the failure of the minimanipulation. For example, the multimodal sensors may provide sensing feedback data on the success or failure of the minimanipulation. At step 944, the computer 16 is configured to make a real-time adjustment and adjusts the parameters of the minimanipulation execution process. At step 946, the computer 16 adds new information about the success or failure of the parameter adjustment to the minimanipulation library as a learning mechanism to the robotic food preparation engine 56.
[00399] FIG. 28 is a flow diagram illustrating the process 950 for quality control and alignment functions for robotic arms. At step 952, the robotic food preparation engine 56 loads a human chef replication software recipe file 46 via the input module 50. For example, the software recipe file 46 to replicate food preparation from Michelin starred chef Arnd Beuchel's "Wiener Schnitzel". At step 954, the robotic apparatus 75 executes tasks with identical movements such as those for the torso, hands, fingers, with identical pressure, force and xyz position, at an identical pace as the recorded recipe data stored based on the actions of the human chef preparing the same recipe in a standardized kitchen module with standardized equipment based on the stored receipt-script including all movement /motion replication data. At step 956, the computer 16 monitors the food preparation process via a multimodal sensor that generates raw data supplied to abstraction software where the robotic apparatus 75 compares real-world output against controlled data based on multimodal sensory data (visual, audio, and any other sensory feedback). At step 958, the computer 16 determines if there any differences between the controlled data and the multimodal sensory data. At step 960, the computer 16 analyzes whether the multimodal sensory data deviates from the controlled data. If there is a deviation, at step 962, the computer 16 makes an adjustment to re-calibrate the robotic arm 70, the robotic hand 72, or other elements. At step 964, the robotic food preparation engine 16 is configured to learn in process 964 by adding the adjustment made to one or more parameter values to the knowledge database. At step 968, the computer 16 stores the updated revision information to the knowledge database pertaining to the corrected process, condition, and parameters. If there is no difference in deviation from step 958, the process 950 goes directly to step 970 in completing the execution.
[00400] FIG. 29 is a table illustrating one embodiment of a database library structure 972 of minimanipulation objects for use in the standardized robotic kitchen. The database library structure 972 shows several fields for entering and storing information for a particular minimanipulation, including (1) the name of the minimanipulation, (2) the assigned code of the minimanipulation, (3) the code(s) of standardized equipment and tools associated with the performance of the minimanipulation, (4) the initial position and orientation of the manipulated (standard or non-standard) objects (ingredients and tools), (5) parameters/variables defined by the user (or extracted from the recorded recipe during execution), (6) sequence of robotic hand movements (control signals for all servos) and connecting feedback parameters (from any sensor or video monitoring system) of minimanipulations on the timeline. The parameters for a particular minimanipulation may differ depending on the complexity and objects that are necessary to perform the minimanipulation. In this example, four parameters are identified: the starting XYZ position coordinates in the volume of the standardized kitchen module, the speed, the object size, and the object shape. Both the object size and the object shape may be defined or described by non-standard parameters. [00401] FIG. 30 is a table illustrating a database library structure 974 of standard objects for use in the standardized robotic kitchen 50, which contains three-dimensional models of standard objects. The standard object database library structure 974 shows several fields to store information pertaining to a standard object, including (1) the name of an object, (2) an image of the object, (3) an assigned code for the object, (4) a virtual 3D model with full dimensions of the object in an XYZ coordinate-matrix with the preferred resolution predefined, (5) a virtual vector model of the object (if available), (6) definition and marking of the working elements of the object (the elements, which may be in contact with hands and other objects for manipulation), and (7) an initial standard orientation of the object for each specific manipulation. The sample database structure 974 of an electronic library contains three-dimensional models of all standard objects (i.e., all kitchen equipment, kitchen tools, kitchen appliances, containers), which is part of the overall standardized kitchen module 50. The three-dimensional models of standard objects can be visually captured by a three-dimensional camera and store in the database library structure 974 for subsequent use.
[00402] FIG. 31 depicts the execution of process 980 by using the robotic hand 640 with one or more sensors 642 to check for the quality of the ingredients as part of the recipe replication process by the standardized robotic kitchen. The multi-modal sensor system video-sensing element is able to implement process 982, which uses color-detection and spectral analysis to detect discoloration indicating possible spoilage. Similarly using an ammonia-sensitive sensor system, whether embedded in the kitchen or part of a mobile probe handled by the robotic hands, further potential for spoilage can be detected. Additional haptic sensors in the robotic hands and fingers would allow for validating the freshness of the ingredient through the touch-sensing process 984, where the firmness and resistance to contact forces is measured (amount and rate of deflection as a function of compression-distance). As an example, for fish the color (deep red) and moisture content of the gills is an indicator of freshness, as the eyes which should be clear (not fogged), and the proper temperature of the flesh of a properly thawed fish should not exceed 40 degrees Fahrenheit. Additional contact-sensors on the finger-tips are able to carry out additional quality check 986 related to the temperature, texture and overall weight of the ingredient through touching, rubbing and holding/pickup motions. All the data collected through these haptic sensors and video-imagery can be used in a processing algorithm to decide on the freshness of the ingredient and make decisions on whether to use it or dispose of it.
[00403] FIG. 32 depicts the robotic recipe-script replication process 988, wherein a multi-modal sensor outfitted head 20, and dual arms with multi-fingered hands 72 holding ingredients and utensils, interact with cookware 990. The robotic sensor head 20 with a multi-modal sensor unit is used to continually model and monitor the three-dimensional task-space being worked by both robotic arms while also providing data to the task-abstraction module to identify tools and utensils, appliances and their contents and variables, so as to allow them to be compared to the cooking-process sequence generated recipe-steps to ensure the execution is proceeding along the computer-stored sequence-data for the recipe. Additional sensors in the robotic sensor head 20 are used in the audible domain to listen and smell during significant parts of the cooking process. The robotic hands 72 and their haptic sensors are used to handle respective ingredients properly, such as an egg in this case; the sensors in the fingers and palm are able to for example detect a usable egg by way of surface texture and weight and its distribution and hold and orient the egg without breaking it. The multi-fingered robotic hands 72 are also capable of fetching and handling particular cookware, such as a bowl in this case, and grab and handle cooking utensils (a whisk in this case), with proper motions and force application so as to properly process food ingredients (e.g. cracking an egg, separating the yolks and beating the egg-white until a stiff composition is achieved) as specified in the recipe-script.
[00404] FIG. 33 depicts the ingredient storage system notion 1000, wherein food storage containers 1002, capable of storing any of the needed cooking ingredients (e.g. meats, fish, poultry, shellfish, vegetables, etc.), are outfitted with sensors to measure and monitor the freshness of the respective ingredient. The monitoring sensors embedded in the food storage containers 1002 include, but are not limited to, ammonia sensors 1004, volatile organic compound sensors 1006, internal container temperature sensors 1008 and humidity sensors 1010. Additionally a manual probe (or detection device) 1012 with one or more sensors can be used, whether employed by the human chef or the robotic arms and hands, to allow for key measurements (such as temperature) within a volume of a larger ingredient (e.g. internal meat temperature).
[00405] FIG. 34 depicts the measurement and analysis process 1040 carried out as part of the freshness and quality check for ingredients placed in food storage containers 1042 containing sensors and detection devices (e.g. a temperature probe/needle) for conducing online analysis for food freshness on cloud computing or a computer over the Internet or a computer network. A container is able to forward its data set by way of a metadata tag 1044, specifying its container-ID, and including the temperature data 1046, humidity data 1048, ammonia level data 1050, volatile organic compound data 1052 over a wireless data-network through a communication step 1056, to a main server where a food control quality engine processes the container data. The processing step 1060 uses the container- specific data 1044 and compares it to data-values and -ranges considered acceptable, which are stored and retrieved from media 1058 by a data retrieval and storage process 1054. A set of algorithms then make the decision as to the suitability of the ingredient, providing a real-time food quality analysis result over the data-network via a separate communication process 1062. The quality analysis results are then utilized in another process 1064, where the results are forwarded to the robotic arms for further action and may also be displayed remotely on a screen (such as a smartphone or other display) for a user to decide if the ingredient is to be used in the cooking process for later consumption or disposed of as spoiled.
[00406] FIG. 35 depicts the functionalities and process-steps of pre-filled ingredient containers 1070 with one or more program dispenser controls for use in the standardized robotic kitchen 50, whether it be the standardized robotic kitchen or the chef studio. Ingredient containers 1070 are designed in different sizes 1082 and varied usages are suitable for proper storage environments 1080 to accommodate perishable items by way of refrigeration, freezing, chilling, etc. to achieve specific storage temperature ranges. Additionally, the pre-filled ingredient storage containers 1070 are also designed to suit different types of ingredients 1072, with containers already pre-labeled and pre-filled with solid (salt, flour, rice, etc.), viscous/pasty (mustard, mayonnaise, marzipan, jams, etc.) or liquid (water, oil, milk, juice, etc.) ingredients, where dispensing processes 1074 utilize a variety of different application devices (dropper, chute, peristaltic dosing pump, etc.) depending on the ingredient type, with exact computer-controllable dispensing by way of a dosage control engine 1084 running a dosage control process 1076 ensuring that the proper amount of ingredient is dispensed at the right time. It should be noted that the recipe-specified dosage is adjustable to suit personal tastes or diets (low sodium, etc.), by way of a menu-interface or even through a remote phone application. The dosage determination process 1078 is carried out by the dosage control engine 1084, based on the amount specified in the recipe, with dispensing occurring either through manual release command or remote computer control based on the detection of a particular dispensing container at the exit point of the dispenser.
[00407] FIG. 36 is a block diagram illustrating a recipe structure and process 1090 for food preparation in the standardized robotic kitchen 50. The food preparation process 1090 is shown as divided into multiple stages along the cooking timeline, with each stage having or more raw data blocks for each stage 1092, stage 1094, stage 1096 and stage 1098. The data blocks can contain such elements as video-imagery, audio-recordings, textual descriptions, as well as the machine-readable and - understandable set of instructions and commands that form a part of the control program. The raw data set is contained within the recipe structure and representative of each cooking stage along a timeline divided into many time-sequenced stages, with varying levels of time-intervals and -sequences, all the way from the start of the recipe replication process to the end of the cooking process, or any sub- process therein.
[00408] FIGS. 37A-C are block diagrams illustrating recipe search menus for use in the standardized robotic kitchen. As shown in FIG. 37A, a recipe search menu 1110 provides most popular categories such as type of cuisine (e.g. Italian, French, Chinese), the basis of ingredients of the dish (e.g. fish, pork, beef, pasta), or criteria and range such as cooking time range (e.g. less than 60 minutes, between 20 to 40 minutes) as well as conducting a keyword search (e.g. ricotta cavatelli, migliaccio cake). A selected personalized recipe may exclude a recipe with allergic ingredients in which a user can indicate allergic ingredients that the user may refrain from in a personal user profile, which can be defined by a user or from another source. In FIG. 37B, the user may select a search criteria, including the requirements of a cooking time less than 44 minutes, serving sufficient portions for 7 people, providing vegetarian dish options, with a total calories of 4521 or less, as shown in this figure. The different types of dishes 1112 are shown in FIG. 37C where menu 1110 has hierarchical levels such that the user may select a category (e.g. type of dish) 1112, which then expands to the next level sub-categories (e.g. appetizers, salads, entrees) to refine the selections. A screen shot of an implemented recipe creation and submission is illustrated in FIG. 37D. Another screen shot depicting the types of ingredients is shown in FIG. 37E.
[00409] One embodiment of the flow charts in functioning as a recipe filter, an ingredient filter, an equipment filter, an account and social network access, a personal partner page, a shopping cart page, and the information on the purchased recipe, registration setting, create a recipe are illustrated in FIG. 37F through 370, which illustrate the various functions that the robotic food preparation software 14 is capable of performing based on the filtering of databases and presenting the information to the user. As demonstrated in FIG. 37F, a platform user can access the recipe section and choose the desired recipe filters 1130 for automatic robotic cooking. The most common filter types include types of cuisine (e.g. Chinese, French, Italian), type of cooking (e.g. bake, steam, fry), vegetarian dishes, and diabetic food. The user will be able to view the recipe details, such as description, photo, ingredients, price, and ratings, from the filtered search result. In FIG. 37G, the user can choose the desired ingredient filters 1132, such as organic, type of ingredient, or brand of ingredient, for his purpose. In FIG. 37G, the user can apply the equipment filters 1134 for the automatic robotic kitchen modules, such as the type, the brand, and the manufacturer of equipment. After selecting, the user will be able to purchase recipes, ingredients, or equipment product directly through the system portal from the associated vendors. The platform allows the users to create additional filters and parameters for his/her own purpose, which makes the entire system customizable and constantly renewing. The user-added filters and parameters will appear as system filters after approval by moderator.
[00410] In FIG. 37H, a user is able to connect to other users and vendors through the platform's social professional network by logging into the user account 1140. The identity of the network user is verified, possibly through the credit card and the address details. The account portal also serves as a trading platform for users to share or sell their recipes, as well as advertising to other users. The user can manage his account finance and equipment through the account portal as well.
[00411] An example of partnership between users of the platform is demonstrated in FIG. 37J. One user can provide all the information and details for his ingredients and another user does the same for his equipment. All information must be filtered through a moderator before adding to the platform/website database. In FIG. 37K, a user can see the information for his purchases in the shopping cart 1142. Other options, such as delivery and payment method, can also be changed. The user can also purchase more ingredients or equipment, based on the recipes in his shopping cart.
[00412] FIG 37L shows the other information on the purchased recipes can be accessed from the recipes page 1144. The user can read, hear, and watch how to cook, as well as execute automatic robotic cooking. Communication with the vendors or technical support regarding the recipe is also possible from the recipes page.
[00413] FIG. 37M is a block diagram that illustrate the different layers of the platform from the "My account" page 1136 and Settings page 1138. From the "My account" page, the user will be able to read professional cooking news or blogs, and can write an article to publish. Through the recipe page under "My account", there are multiple ways a user can create his own recipe 1146, as shown in FIG. 37N. The user can create a recipe by creating an automatic robotic cooking script either by capturing chief cooking movements or by choosing manipulation sequences from software library. The user can also create recipe by simply listing the ingredient/ equipment, then add audio, video, or picture. The user can edit all recipes from the recipe page.
[00414] FIG. 38 is a block diagram illustrating a recipe search menu 1150 by selecting fields for use in the standardized robotic kitchen. By selecting a category with a search criteria or range, the user 60 receives a return page that lists the various recipes results. The user 60 is able to sort the results by criteria such as a user rating (e.g. from high to low), an expert rating (e.g. from high to low), or the duration of the food preparation (e.g. from shorter to longer). The computer display may contain a photo/media, title, description, ratings and price information of the recipe, with an optional tab of the "read more" button that brings up a complete recipe page for browsing further information about the recipe.
[00415] The standardized robotic kitchen 50 in FIG. 39 depicts a possible configuration for the use of an augmented sensor system 1152, which represents one embodiment of the multimodal three- dimensional sensors 20. The augmented sensor system 1152 shows a single augmented sensor system 1854 placed on a movable computer-controllable linear rail travelling the length of the kitchen axis with the intent to cover the complete visible three-dimensional workspace of the standardized kitchen effectively. The standardized robotic kitchen 50 shows a single augmented sensor system 20 placed on a movable computer-controllable linear rail travelling the length of the kitchen axis with the intent to cover the complete visible three-dimensional workspace of the standardized kitchen effectively.
[00416] Based on the proper placement of the augmented sensor system 1152 placed somewhere in the robotic kitchen, such as on a computer-controllable railing, or on the torso of a robot with arms and hands, allows for 3D-tracking and raw data generation, both during chef-monitoring for machine-specific recipe-script generation, and monitoring the progress and successful completion of the robotically- executed steps in the stages of the dish replication in the standardized robotic kitchen 50.
[00417] FIG 40. is a block diagram illustrating the standardized kitchen module 50 with multiple camera sensors and/or lasers 20 for real- time three-dimensional modeling 1160 of the food preparation environment. The robotic kitchen cooking system 48 includes a three-dimensional electronic sensor that is capable of providing real-time raw data for a computer to create a three-dimensional model of the kitchen operating environment. One possible implementation of the real-time three-dimensional modeling process involves the use of three-dimensional laser scanning. An alternative implementation of the real-time three-dimensional modeling is to use one or more video cameras. Yet a third method involves the use of a projected light- pattern observed by a camera, so-called structured-light imaging. The three-dimensional electronic sensor scans the kitchen operating environment in real-time to provide a visual representation (shape and dimensional data) 1162 of the working space in the kitchen module. For example, the three- dimensional electronic sensor captures in real-time the three-dimensional images of whether the robotic arm/hand has picked up meat or fish. The three-dimensional model of the kitchen also serves as sort of a 'human-eye' for making adjustments to grab an object, as some objects may have nonstandard dimensions. The compute processing system 16 generates a computer model of the three-dimensional geometry, robotic kinematics, objects in the workspace and provides controls signals 1164 back to the standardized robotic kitchen 50. For instance, three-dimensional modeling of the kitchen can provide a three-dimensional resolution grid with a desirable spacing, such as with 1 centimeter spacing between the grid points.
[00418] The standardized robotic kitchen 50 depicts another possible configuration for the use of one or more augmented sensor systems 20. The standardized robotic kitchen 50 shows a multitude of augmented sensor systems 20 placed in the corners above the kitchen work-surface along the length of the kitchen axis with the intent to effectively cover the complete visible three-dimensional workspace of the standardized robotic kitchen 50.
[00419] The proper placement of the augmented sensor system 20 in the standardized robotic kitchen 50, allows for three-dimensional sensing, using video-cameras, lasers, sonars and other two- and three-dimensional sensor systems to enable the collection of raw data to assist in the creation of processed data for real-time dynamic models of shape, location, orientation and activity for robotic arms, hands, tools, equipment and appliances, as they relate to the different steps in the multiple sequential stages of dish replication in the standardized robotic kitchen 50.
[00420] Raw data is collected at each point in time to allow the raw data to be processed to be able to extract the shape, dimension, location and orientation of all objects of importance to the different steps in the multiple sequential stages of dish replication in the standardized robotic kitchen 50 in a step 1162. The processed data is further analyzed by the computer system to allow the controller of the standardized robotic kitchen to adjust robotic arm and hand trajectories and minimanipulations, by modifying the control signals defined by the robotic script. Adaptations to the recipe-script execution and thus control signals is essential in successfully completing each stage of the replication for a particular dish, given the potential for variability for many variables (ingredients, temperature, etc.). The process of recipe-script execution based on key measurable variables is an essential part of the use of the augmented (also termed multi-modal) sensor system 20 during the execution of the replicating steps for a particular dish in a standardized robotic kitchen 50.
[00421] FIG. 41A is a diagram illustrating a robotic kitchen prototype. The prototype kitchen comprises three levels, the top level includes a rail system 1170 with a pair of arms to move along for food preparation during a robot mode. An extractible hood 1172 is assessable for two robot arms to return to a charging dock to allow them to be stored when not used for cooking, or for when the kitchen is set to manual cooking mode in a manual mode. The mid level includes sinks, stove, griller, oven, and a working counter top with access to ingredients storage. The middle level has also a computer monitor to operate the equipment, choose the recipe, watching the video and text instructions, and listening to the audio instruction. The lower level includes an automatic container system to store food/ingredients at their best conditions, with the possibility to automatically deliver ingredients to the cooking volume as required by the recipe. The kitchen prototype also includes an oven, dishwasher, cooking tools, accessories, cookware organizer, drawers and recycle bin.
[00422] FIG. 41B is a diagram illustrating a robotic kitchen prototype with a transparent material enclosure 1180 that serves as a protection mechanism while the robotic cooking process is occurring to prevent causing potential injuries to surrounding humans. The transparent material enclosure can be made from a variety of transparent materials, such as glass, fiberglass, plastics, or any other suitable material for use in the robotic kitchen 50 to provide as a protective screen to shield from the operation of robotic arms and hand from external sources outside the robotic kitchen 50, such as people. In one example, the transparent material enclosure comprises an automatic glass door (or doors). As shown in this embodiment, the automatic glass doors are positioned to slide up-down or down-up (from bottom section) to close for safety reasons during the cooking process involving the use of robotic arms. A variation in the design of the transparent material enclosure is possible, such as vertically sliding down, vertically sliding up, horizontally from left to right, horizontally from right to left, or any other methods that place allow for the transparent material enclosure in the kitchen to serve as a protection mechanism.
[00423] FIG. 41C depicts an embodiment of the standardized robotic kitchen, where the volume prescribed by the countertop surface and the underside of the hood, has horizontally sliding glass doors 1190, that can be manually, or under computer control, moved left or right to separate the workspace of the robotic arms/hands from its surroundings for such purposes as safeguarding any human standing near the kitchen, or limit contamination into/out-of the kitchen work-area, or even allow for better climate control within the enclosed volume. The automatic sliding glass doors slide left-right to close for safety reasons during the cooking processes involving the use of the robotic arms.
[00424] FIG. 41D depicts an embodiment of the standardized robotic kitchen, where the countertop or work-surface includes an area with a sliding-door 1200 access to the ingredient-storage volume in the bottom cabinet volume of the robotic kitchen counter. The doors can be slid open manually, or under computer control, to allow access to the ingredient containers therein. Either manually, or under computer control, one or more specific containers can be fed to countertop level by the ingredient storage-and-supply unit, allowing manual access (in this depiction by the robotic arms/hands) to the container, its lid and thus the contents of the container. The robotic arms/hands can then open the lid, retrieve the ingredient(s) as needed, and place the ingredient(s) in the appropriate place (plate, pan, pot, etc.), before re-sealing, the container and placing it back on or into the ingredient storage-and- supply unit. The ingredient storage-and-supply unit then places the container back into the appropriate location within the unit for later re-use, cleaning or re-stocking. This process of supplying and re-stacking ingredient containers for access by the robotic arms/hands is an integral and repeating process that forms part of the recipe-script as certain steps within the recipe replication process call for one or more ingredients of a certain type, based on the stage of the recipe-script execution the standardized robotic kitchen 50 might be involved in.
[00425] To access the ingredients storage-and-supply unit, part of the countertop with sliding doors can be opened, where the recipe software controls the doors and moves designated containers and ingredients to the access location where the robotic arm(s) may pick up the containers, open the lid, remove the ingredients out of the containers to a designated place, reseat the lid and move the containers back into storage. The container is moved from the access location back to its default location in the storage unit, and a new/next container item is then uploaded to the access location to be picked up.
[00426] An alternative embodiment for an ingredient storage-and-supply unit 1210 is depicted in FIG. 41E. Specific or repetitively used ingredients (salt, sugar, flour, oil, etc.) can be dispensed using computer-controlled feeding mechanisms or allow for hand-triggered, whether by human or robotic hands or fingers, release of a specified amount of a specific ingredient. The amount of ingredient to be dispensed can be manually entered by the human or robotic hand on a touch-panel, or provided via computer-control. The dispensed ingredient can then be collected or fed into a piece of kitchen equipment (bowl, pan, pot, etc.) at any time during the recipe replication process. This embodiment of an ingredient supply and dispensing system can be thought of as more cost- and space-efficient approach while also reducing container-handling complexity as well as wasted motion-time by the robot arms/hands.
[00427] In FIG. 41F an embodiment of the standardized robotic kitchen includes a backsplash area 1220, wherein is mounted a virtual monitor/display with a touchscreen area to allow a human operating the kitchen in manual mode to interact with the robotic kitchen and its elements. A computer-projected image and a separate camera monitoring the projected area can tell where the human hand and its finger are located when making a specific choice based on a location in the projected image, upon which the system then acts accordingly. The virtual touchscreen allows for access to all control and monitoring functions for all aspects of the equipment within the standardized robotic kitchen 50, retrieval and storage of recipes, reviewing stored videos of complete or partial recipe execution steps by a human chef, as well as listening to audible playback of the human chef voicing descriptions and instructions related to a particular step or operation in a particular recipe.
[00428] FIG. 41G depicts a single or a series of robotic hard automation device(s) 1230, which are built into the standardized robotic kitchen. The device or devices are programmable and controllable remotely by a computer and are designed to feed or provide pre-packaged or pre-measured amounts of dedicated ingredient elements needed in the recipe replication process, such as spices (salt, pepper, etc.), liquids (water, oil, etc.) or other dry ingredients (flour, sugar, baking powder, etc.). These robotic automation devices 1230 are located to make them readily accessible to the robotic arms/hands to allow them to be used by the robotic arms/hands or those of a human chef, to set and/or trigger the release of a determined amount of an ingredient of choice based on the needs specified in the recipe- script.
[00429] FIG. 41H depicts a single or a series of robotic hard automation device(s) 1240, which are built into the standardized robotic kitchen. The device or devices are programmable and controllable remotely by a computer and are designed to feed or provide pre-packaged or pre-measured amounts of common and repetitively used ingredient elements needed in the recipe replication process, where a dosage control engine/system, is capable of providing just the proper amount to a specific piece of equipment, such as a bowl, pot or pan. These robotic automation devices 1240 are located so as to make them readily accessible to the robotic arms/hands to allow them to be used by the robotic arms/hands or those of a human cook, to set and/or trigger the release of a dosage-engine controlled amount of an ingredient of choice based on the needs specified in the recipe-script. This embodiment of an ingredient supply and dispensing system can be thought of as more cost- and space-efficient approach while also reducing container-handling complexity as well as wasted motion-time by the robot arms/hands.
[00430] FIG. 411 depicts the standardized robotic kitchen outfitted with both a ventilation system 1250 to extract fumes and steam during the automated cooking process, as well as an automatic smoke/flame detection and suppression system 1252 to extinguish any source of noxious smoke and dangerous fire also allowing the safety glass of the sliding doors to enclose the standardized robotic kitchen 50 to contain the affected space.
[00431] FIG. 41J depicts the standardized robotic kitchen 50 with a waste management system 1260 which is located within a location in the lower cabinet so as to allow for easy and rapid disposal of recyclable (glass, aluminum, etc.) and non-recyclable (food scraps, etc.) items by way of a set of trash containers with removable lids, which contain sealing elements (gaskets, o-rings, etc.) to provide for an airtight seal to keep odors from escaping into the standardized robotic kitchen 50..
[00432] FIG. 41K depicts the standardized robotic kitchen 50 with a top-loaded dishwasher 1270 located within a certain location in the kitchen for ease of robotic loading and unloading. The dishwasher includes a sealing lid, which during automated recipe replication step execution can also be used as a cutting board or workspace with an integral drainage groove.
[00433] FIG. 41L depicts the standardized kitchen with an instrumented ingredient quality-check system 1280 comprised of an instrumented panel with sensors and a food-probe. The area includes sensors on the backsplash capable of detecting multiple physical and chemical characteristics of ingredients placed within the area, including but not limited to spoilage (ammonia sensor), temperature (thermocouple), volatile organic compounds (emitted upon biomass decomposition), as well as moisture/humidity (hygrometer) content. A food probe using a temperature-sensor (thermocouple) detection device can also be present to be wielded by the robotic arms/hands to probe the internal properties of a particular cooking ingredient or element (such as internal temperature of red meat, poultry, etc.).
[00434] FIG. 42A depicts one embodiment of a standardized robotic kitchen 50 in plan view 1290, whereby it should be understood that the elements therein could be arranged in a different layout. The standardized robotic kitchen 50 is divided in to three levels, namely the top level 1292-1, the counter level 1292-2 and the lower level 1292-3.
[00435] The top level 1292-1 contains multiple cabinet-type modules with different units to perform specific kitchen functions by way of built-in appliances and equipment. At the simplest level a shelf/cabinet storage area 1294 is included, a cabinet volume 1296 used for storing and accessing cooking tools and utensils and other cooking and serving ware (cooking, baking, plating, etc.), a storage ripening cabinet volume 1298 for particular ingredients (e.g. fruit and vegetables, etc.), a chilled storage zone 1300 for such items as lettuce and onions, a frozen storage cabinet volume 1302 for deep-frozen items, another storage pantry zone 1304 for other ingredients and rarely used spices, and a hard automation ingredient supplier 1305, and others.
[00436] The counter level 1292-2 not only houses the robotic arms 70, but also includes a serving counter 1306, a counter area with a sink 1308, another counter area 1310 with removable working surfaces (cutting/chopping board, etc.), a charcoal-based slatted grill 1312 and a multi-purpose area for other cooking appliances 1314, including a stove, cooker, steamer and poacher.
[00437] The lower level 1292-3 houses the combination convection oven and microwave 1316, the dish-washer 1318 and a larger cabinet volume 1320 that holds and stores additional frequently used cooking and baking ware, as well as tableware and packing materials and cutlery.
[00438] FIG. 42B depicts a perspective view 50 of the standardized robotic kitchen, depicting the locations of the top level 1292-1, counter level 1292-2 and the lower level 1294-3, within an xyz coordinate frame with axes for x 1322, y 1324 and z 1326 to allow for proper geometric referencing for positioning of the robotic arms 34 within the standardized robotic kitchen.
[00439] The perspective view of the robotic kitchen 50 clearly identifies one of the many possible layouts and locations for equipment at all three levels, including the top level 1292-1 (storage pantry 1304, standardized cooking tools and ware 1320, storage ripening zone 1298, chilled storage zone 1300, and frozen storage zone 1302, the counter level 1292-2 (robotic arms 70, sink 1308, chopping/cutting area 1310, charcoal grill 1312, cooking appliances 1314 and serving counter 1306) and the lower level (dish-washer 1318 and oven and microwave 1316).
[00440] FIG. 43A depicts a plan view of one possible physical embodiment of the standardized robotic kitchen layout, where the kitchen is built into a more linear substantially rectangular horizontal layout depicting a built-in monitor 1332 for a user to operate the equipment, choose a recipe, watch video and listen to the recorded chef's instructions, as well as automatically computer-controlled (or manually operated) left/right movable transparent doors 1330 for enclosing the open faces of the standardized robotic cooking volume during operation of the robotic arms.
[00441] FIG. 43B depicts a perspective view of one physical embodiment of the standardized robotic kitchen layout, where the kitchen is built into a more linear substantially rectangular horizontal layout depicting a built-in monitor 1332 for a user to operate the equipment, choose a recipe, watch video and listen to the recorded chef's instructions, as well as automatically computer-controlled left/right movable transparent doors 1330 for enclosing the open faces of the standardized robotic cooking volume during operation of the robotic arms. [00442] FIG. 44A depicts a plan view of another physical embodiment of the standardized robotic kitchen layout, where the kitchen is built into a more linear substantially rectangular horizontal layout depicting a built-in monitor 1336 for a user to operate the equipment, choose a recipe, watch video and listen to the recorded chef's instructions, as well as automatically computer-controlled up/down movable transparent doors 1338 for enclosing the open faces of the standardized robotic cooking volume during operation of the robotic arms and hands. Alternatively, the movable transparent doors 1338 can be computer-controlled to move in the horizontal left and right directions, which can occur automatically by sensors or pressing of tab or button a human, or voice activated.
[00443] FIG. 44B depicts a perspective view of another possible physical embodiment of the standardized robotic kitchen layout, where the kitchen is built into a more linear substantially rectangular horizontal layout depicting a built-in monitor 1340 for a user to operate the equipment, choose a recipe, watch video and listen to the recorded chef's instructions, as well as automatically computer-controlled up/down movable transparent doors 1342 for enclosing the open faces of the standardized robotic cooking volume during operation of the robotic arms.
[00444] FIG. 45 depicts a perspective layout view of a telescopic life 1350 in the standardized robotic kitchen 50 in which a pair of robotic arms, wrists and multi-fingered hands move as a unit on a prismatically (through linear staged extension) and telescopically actuated torso along the vertical y-axis 1351 and the horizontal x-axis 1352, as well as rotationally about the vertical y-axis running through the centerline of its own torso. One or more actuators 1353 are embedded in the torso and upper level to allow the linear and rotary motions to allow the robotic arms 72 and the robotic hands 70 to be moved to different places in the standardized robotic kitchen during all parts of the replication of the recipe spelled out in the recipe script. These multiple motions are necessary to be able to properly replicate the motions of a human chef 49 as observed in the chef studio kitchen setup during the creation of the dish when cooked by the human chef. A panning (rotational) actuator 1354 on the telescopic actuator 1350 at the base of the left/right translational stage allows at least the partial rotation of the robot arms 70, akin to a chef turning its shoulders or torso for dexterity or orientation reasons - otherwise one would be limited to cooking in a single plane.
[00445] FIG. 46A depicts a plan view of one physical embodiment 1356 of the standardized robotic kitchen module 50, where the kitchen is built into a more linear substantially rectangular horizontal layout depicting a set of dual robotic arms with wrists and multi-fingered hands, where each of the arm bases is mounted neither on a set of movable rails nor on a rotatable torso, but rather rigidly and unmovably mounted on one and the same of the robotic kitchen vertical surfaces, thereby defining and fixing the location and dimensions of the robotic torso, yet still allowing both robotic arms to work collaboratively and reach all areas of the cooking surfaces and equipment.
[00446] FIG. 46B depicts a perspective view of one physical embodiment 1358 of the standardized robotic kitchen layout, where the kitchen is built into a more linear substantially rectangular horizontal layout depicting a set of dual robotic arms with wrists and multi-fingered hands, where each of the arm bases is not mounted neither on a set of movable rails nor on a rotatable torso, but rather rigidly and unmovably mounted on one and the same of the robotic kitchen vertical surfaces, thereby defining and fixing the location and dimensions of the robotic torso, yet still allowing both robotic arms to work collaboratively and reach all areas of the cooking surfaces and equipment (oven on back wall, cooktop beneath the robotic arms and sink to one side of the robotic arms).
[00447] FIG. 46C depicts a dimensioned front view of one possible physical embodiment 1360 of the standardized robotic kitchen, denoting its height along the y-axis and width along the x-axis to be 2284mm overall. FIG. 46D depicts a dimensioned side section view of one physical embodiment 1362 as an example of the standardized robotic kitchen 50, denoting its height along the y-axis to be 2164mm and 3415mm, respectively. This embodiment does not limit the present disclosure but provide one example embodiment. FIG. 46E depicts a dimensioned side view of one physical embodiment 1364 of the standardized robotic kitchen, denoting its height along the y-axis and depth along the z-axis to be 2284mm and 1504mm, respectively. FIG. 46F depicts a dimensioned top section view of one physical embodiment 1366 of the standardized robotic kitchen, including a pair of robotic arms 1368, denoting the depth of the entire robotic kitchen module along the z-axis to be 1504mm overall. FIG. 46G depicts a three-view, augmented by a section-view, of one physical embodiment as another example of the standardized robotic kitchen, showing the overall length along the x-axis to be 3415mm, the overall height along the y-axis to be 2164mm, and the overall depth along the z-axis to be 1504mm, where the overall height in the sectional side-view indicates an overall height along the z-axis of 2284mm.
[00448] FIG. 47 is a block diagram illustrating a programmable storage system 88 for use with the standardized robotic kitchen 50. The programmable storage system 88 is structured in the standardized robotic kitchen 50 based on the relative xy position coordinates within the programmable storage system 88. In this example, the programmable storage system 88 has twenty seven (27; arranged in a 9 X 3 matrix) storage locations that have nine columns and three rows. The programmable storage system 88 can serve as the freezer location or the refrigeration location. In this embodiment, each of the twenty-seven programmable storage locations includes four types of sensors: a pressure sensor 1370, a humidity sensor 1372, a temperature sensor 1374, and a smell (olfactory) sensor 1376. With each storage location recognizable by its xy coordinates, the robotic apparatus 75 is able to access a selected programmable storage location to obtain the necessary food item(s) in the location to prepare a dish. The computer 16 can also monitor each programmable storage location for the proper temperature, proper humidity, proper pressure, and proper smell profiles to ensure optimal storage conditions for particular food items or ingredients are monitored and maintained.
[00449] FIG. 48 depicts an elevation view of the container storage station 86, where temperature, humidity and relative oxygen content (and other room conditions) can be monitored and controlled by a computer. Included in this storage container unit can be, but it is not limited to, a pantry/dry storage area 1304, a ripening area 1298 with separately controllable temperature and humidity (for fruit/vegetables), of importance to wine, a chiller unit 1300 for lower temperature storage for produce/fruit/meats so as to optimize shelf life, and a freezer unit 1302 for long-term storage of other items (meats, baked goods, seafood, ice cream, etc.).
[00450] FIG. 49 depicts an elevation view of ingredient containers 1380 to be accessed by a human chef and the robotic arms and multi-fingered hands. This section of the standardized robotic kitchen includes, but is not necessarily limited to, multiple units including an ingredient quality monitoring dashboard (display) 1382, a computerized measurement unit 1384, which includes a barcode scanner, camera and scale, a separate countertop 1386 with automated rack-shelving for ingredient check-in and check-out, and a recycling unit 1388 for disposal of recyclable hard (glass, aluminum, metals, etc.) and soft goods (food rests and scraps, etc.) suitable for recycling.
[00451] FIG. 50 depicts the ingredient quality-monitoring dashboard 1390, which is a computer- controlled display for use by the human chef. The display allows the user to view multiple items of importance to the ingredient-supply and ingredient-quality aspect of human and robotic cooking. These include the display of the ingredient inventory overview 1392 outlining what is available, the individual ingredient selected and its nutritional content and relative distribution 1394, the amount and dedicated storage as a function of storage category 1396 (meats, vegetables, etc.), a schedule 1398 depicting pending expiry dates and fulfillment/replenishment dates and items, an area for any kinds of alerts 1400 (sensed spoilage, abnormal temperatures or malfunctions, etc.), and the option of voice-interpreter command input 1402, to allow the human user to interact with the computerized inventory system by way of the dashboard 1390. [00452] FIG. 51 is a table illustrating one example of a library database 1400 of recipe parameters. The library database 1400 of recipe parameters includes many categories: a meal grouping profile 1402, types of cuisine 1404, a media library 1406, recipe data 1408, robotic kitchen tools and equipment 1410, ingredient groupings 1412, ingredient data 1414, and cooking techniques 1416. Each of these categories provides a listing of the detailed choices that are available in selecting a recipe. The meal group profile includes parameters like age, gender, weight, allergy, medication and lifestyle. The types of cuisine group profile 1404 include cuisine type by region, culture, or religion, and the types of cooking equipment group profile 1410 include items such as pan, grill, or oven and the cooking duration time. The recipe data grouping profile 1408 contains such items as the recipe name, version, cooking and preparation time, tools and appliances needed, etc. The ingredient grouping profile 1412 contains ingredients grouped into items such as dairy products, fruit and vegetables, grains and other carbohydrates, fluids of various types, and protein of various kinds (meats, beans), etc. The ingredient data group profile 1414 contains ingredient descriptor data such as the name, description, nutritional information, storage and handling instructions, etc. The cooking techniques group profile 1416 contains information on specific cooking techniques grouped into such areas as mechanical techniques (basting, chopping, grating, mincing, etc.) and chemical processing techniques (marinating, pickling, fermenting, smoking, etc.).
[00453] FIG. 52 is a flow diagram illustrating one embodiment of the process 1420 of one embodiment of recording a chefs food preparation process. At step 1422 in the chef studio 44, the multimodal three-dimensional sensors 20 scan the kitchen module volume to define xyz coordinates position and orientation of the standardized kitchen equipment and all objects therein, whether static or dynamic. At step 1424, the multimodal three-dimensional sensors 20 scan the kitchen module's volume to find xyz coordinates position of non-standardized objects, such as ingredients. At step 1426, the computer 16 creates three-dimensional models for all non-standardized objects and stores their type and attributes (size, dimensions, usage, etc.) in the computer's system memory, either on a computing device or on a cloud computing environment, and defines the shape, size and type of the non-standardized objects. At step 1428, the chef movements recording module 98 is configured to sense and capture the chef's arm, wrist and hand movements via the chef's gloves in successive time intervals (chef's hand movements preferably identified and classified according to standard minimanipulations). At step 1430, the computer 16 stores the sensed and captured data of the chef's movements in preparing a food dish into a computer's memory storage device(s). [00454] FIG. 53 is a flow diagram illustrating one embodiment of the process 1440 of one embodiment of a robotic apparatus 75 preparing a food dish. At step 1442, the multimodal three- dimensional sensors 20 in the robotic kitchen 48 scan the kitchen module's volume to find xyz position coordinates of non-standardized objects (ingredients, etc.). At step 1444, the multimodal three- dimensional sensors 20 in the robotic kitchen 48 create three-dimensional models for non-standardized objects detected in the standardized robotic kitchen 50 and store the shape, size and type of non- standardized objects in the computer's memory. At step 1446, the robotic cooking module 110 starts a recipe's execution according to a converted recipe file by replicating the chef's food preparation process with the same pace, with the same movements, and with similar time duration. At step 1448, the robotic apparatus 75 executes the robotic instructions of the converted recipe file with a combination of one or more minimanipulations and action primitives, thereby resulting in the robotic apparatus 75 in the robotic standardized kitchen preparing the food dish with the same result or substantially the same result as if the chef 49 had prepared the food dish himself or herself.
[00455] FIG. 54 is a flow diagram illustrating the process of one embodiment in the quality and function adjustment 1450 in obtaining the same or substantially the same result in a food dish preparation by a robotic relative to a chef. At step 1452, the quality check module 56 is configured to conduct a quality check by monitoring and validating the recipe replication process by the robotic apparatus 75 via one or more multimodal sensors, sensors on the robotic apparatus 75, and using abstraction software to compare the output data from the robotic apparatus 75 against the controlled data from the software recipe file created by monitoring and abstracting the cooking processes carried out by the human chef in the chef studio version of the standardized robotic kitchen while executing the same recipe. In step 1454, the robotic food preparation engine 56 is configured to detect and determine any difference(s) that would require the robotic apparatus 75 to adjust the food preparation process, such as at least monitoring for the difference in the size, shape, or orientation of an ingredient. If there is a difference, the robotic food preparation engine 56 is configured to modify the food preparation process by adjusting one or more parameters for that particular food dish processing step based on the raw and processed sensory input data. A determination for acting on a potential difference between the sensed and abstraction process progress compared to the stored process variables in the recipe script is made in step 1454. If the process results of the cooking process in the standardized robotic kitchen are identical to those spelled out in the recipe script for the process step, the food preparation process continues as described in the recipe script. Should a modification or adaptation to the process be required based on raw and processed sensory input data, the adaptation process 1556 is carried out by adjusting any parameters needed to ensure the process variables are brought into compliance with those prescribed in the recipe script for that process step. Upon successful conclusion of the adaptation process 1456, the food preparation process 1458 resumes as specified in the recipe script sequence.
[00456] FIG. 55 depicts a flow diagram illustrating a first embodiment in the process 1460 of the robotic kitchen preparing a dish by replicating a chef's movements from a recorded software file in a robotic kitchen. In step 1461, a user, through a computer, selects a particular recipe for the robotic apparatus 75 to prepare the food dish. In step 1462, the robotic food preparation engine 56 is configured to retrieve the abstraction recipe for the selected recipe for food preparation. In step 1463, the robotic food preparation engine 56 is configured to upload the selected recipe script into the computer's memory. In step 1464, the robotic food preparation engine 56 calculates the ingredient availability and the required cooking time. In step 1465, the robotic food preparation engine 56 is configured to raise an alert or notification if there is a shortage of ingredients or insufficient time to prepare the dish according to the selected recipe and serving schedule. The robotic food preparation engine 56 sends an alert to place missing or insufficient ingredients on a shopping list or selects an alternate recipe in step 1466. The recipe selection by the user is confirmed in step 1467. In step 1468, the robotic food preparation engine 56 is configured to check whether it is time to start preparing the recipe. The process 1460 pauses until the start time has arrived in step 1469. In step 1470, the robotic apparatus 75 inspects each ingredient for freshness and condition (e.g. purchase date, expiration date, odor, color). In step 1471, robotic food preparation engine 56 is configured to send instructions to the robotic apparatus 75 to move food or ingredients from standardized containers to the food preparation position. In step 1472, the robotic food preparation engine 56 is configured to instruct the robotic apparatus 75 to start food preparation at the start time "0" by replicating the food dish from the software recipe script file. In step 1473, the robotic apparatus 75 in the standardized kitchen 50 replicates the food dish with the same movement as the chef's arms and fingers, the same ingredients, with the same pace, and using the same standardized kitchen equipment and tools. The robotic apparatus 75 in step 1474 conducts quality checks during the food preparation process to make any necessary parameter adjustment. In step 1475, the robotic apparatus 75 has completed replication and preparation of the food dish, and therefore is ready to plate and serve the food dish. [00457] FIG. 56 depicts the process of storage container check-in and identification process 1480. Using the quality-monitoring dashboard, the user selects to check in an ingredient in step 1482. In step 1484, the user then scans the ingredient package at the check-in station or counter. Using additional data from the bar code scanner, weighing scales, camera and laser-scanners, the robotic cooking engine processes the ingredient-specific data and maps the same to its ingredient and recipe library and analyzes it for any potential allergic impact in step 1486. Should an allergic potential exist based on step 1488, the system in step 1490 decides to notify the user and dispose of the ingredient for safety reasons. Should the ingredient be deemed acceptable, it is logged and confirmed by the system in step 1492. The user may in step 1494 unpack (if not unpacked already) and drop off the item. In the succeeding step 1496, the item is packed (foil, vacuum bag, etc.), labeled with a computer-printed label with all necessary ingredient data printed thereon, and moved to a storage container and/or storage location based on the results of the identification. At step 1498, the robotic cooking engine then updates its internal database and displays the available ingredient in its quality-monitoring dashboard.
[00458] FIG. 57 depicts an ingredient's check-out from storage and cooking preparation process 1500. In the first step 1502, the user selects to check out an ingredient using the quality-monitoring dashboard. In step 1504, the user selects an item to check out based on a single item needed for one or more recipes. The computerized kitchen then acts in stepl506 to move the specific container containing the selected item from its storage location to the counter area. In case the user picks up the item in step 1508, the user processes the item in step 1510 in one or more of many possible ways (cooking, disposal, recycling, etc.), with any remaining item(s) rechecked back into the system in step 1512, which then concludes the user's interactions with the system 1514. In the case that the robotic arms in a standardized robotic kitchen receive the retrieved ingredient item(s), step 1516 is executed in which the arms and hands inspect each ingredient item in the container against their identification data (type, etc.) and condition (expiration date, color, odor, etc.). In a quality-check step 1518, the robotic cooking engine makes a decision on a potential item mismatch or detected quality condition. In case the item is not appropriate, step 1520 causes an alert to be raised to the cooking engine to follow-up with an appropriate action. Should the ingredient be of acceptable type and quality, the robotic arms move the item(s) to be used in the next cooking process stage in step 1522.
[00459] FIG. 58 depicts the automated pre-cooking preparation process 1524. In step 1530, the robotic cooking engine calculates the margin and/or wasted ingredient materials based on a particular recipe. Subsequently in step 1532, the robotic cooking engine searches all possible techniques and methods for execution of the recipe with each ingredient. In step 1534, the robotic cooking engine calculates and optimizes the ingredient usage and methods for time and energy consumption, particularly for dish(es) requiring parallel multi-task processes. The robotic cooking engine then creates a multi-level cooking plan 1536 for the scheduled dishes and sends the request for cooking execution to the robotic kitchen system. In the next step 1538, the robotic kitchen system moves the ingredients, cooking/baking ware needed for the cooking processes from its automated shelving system and assembles the tools and equipment and sets up the various work stations in step 1540.
[00460] FIG. 59 depicts the recipe design and scripting process 1542. As a first step 1544, the chef selects a particular recipe, for which he then enters or edits the recipe data in step 1546, including, but not limited to, the name and other metadata (background, techniques, etc.). In step 1548, the chef enters or edits the necessary ingredients based on the database and associated libraries and enters the respective amounts by weight/volume/units required for the recipe. A selection of the necessary techniques utilized in the preparation of the recipe is made in step 1550 by the chef, based on those available in the database and the associated libraries. In step 1552, the chef performs a similar selection, but this time he or she is focused on the choice of cooking and preparation methods required to execute the recipe for the dish. The concluding step 1554 then allows the system to create a recipe ID that will be useful for later database storage and retrieval.
[00461] FIG. 60 depicts the process 1556 of how a user might select a recipe. The first step 1558 entails the user purchasing a recipe or subscribing to a recipe-purchase plan from an online marketplace store by way of a computer or mobile application, thereby enabling a download of a recipe script capable of being replicated. In step 1560, the user searches the online database and selects a particular recipe from those purchased or available as part of a subscription, based on personal preference settings and on-site ingredient availability. As a last step 1562, the user enters the time and date when he/she would like the dish to be ready for serving.
[00462] FIG. 61A depicts the process 1570 for the recipe search and purchase and/or subscription process of an online service portal, or so termed recipe commerce platform. As a first step a new user has to register with the system in step 1572 (selecting age, gender, dining preferences, etc., followed by an overall preferred cooking or kitchen style) before a user can search and browse recipes by downloading them via an app on a handheld device or using a TV and/or robotic kitchen module. A user may choose at step 1574 to search using criteria such as style of recipes 1576 (including manually cooked recipes) or based on the particular kitchen or equipment style 1578 (wok, steamer, smoker, etc.). The user can select or set the search to use predefined criteria in step 1580, and using a filtering step 1582 to narrow down the search space and ensuing results. In step 1584, the user selects the recipe from the offered search results, information and recommendation. The user may choose to then share, collaborate or confer with cooking buddies or the community online about the choice and next steps in step 1586.
[00463] FIG. 61B depicts the continuation from FIG. 61A for the recipe search and purchase/subscription process for a service portal. A user is prompted in step 1592 to select a particular recipe based on either a robotic cooking approach or a parameter-controlled version of the recipe. In the case of a parameter-controlled based recipe, the system provides the required equipment details in step 1594 for such items as all the cookware and appliances as well as the robotic arm requirements, and offers select external links at step 1602 to sources for ingredients and equipment suppliers for detailed ordering instructions. The portal system then executes a recipe-type check 1596, where it allows for a direct download and installation 1598 of the recipe program file on the remote device, or requires the user to enter payment information in step 1600 based on a one-off payment or payment on a subscription basis, using one of many possible payment forms (PayPal, BitCoin, credit card, etc.).
[00464] FIG. 62 depicts the process 1610 used in the creation of a robotic recipe cooking application ("App"). As a first step 1612, a developer account needs to be created on such places as the App Store, Google Play or Windows Mobile or other such marketplaces, including the provision of banking and company information. The user is then prompted in step 1614 to obtain and download the most updated Application-Program-lnterface (API) documentation specific for each app store. A developer then has to follow the API-requirements spelled out and create a recipe program in step 1618 that meets the API document requirements. In step 1620, the developer needs to provide a name and other metadata for the recipe that are suitable and prescribed by the various sites (Apple, Google, Samsung, etc.). Step 1622 requires the developer to upload the recipe program and metadata files for approval. The respective marketplace sites then review, test and approve the recipe program in step 1624, after which in step 1626 the respective site(s) list and make available the recipe program for online searching, browsing and purchase over their purchase interface.
[00465] FIG. 63 depicts the process 1628 of purchasing a particular recipe or subscribing to a recipe delivery plan. As a first step 1630, the user searches for a particular recipe to order. The user may choose to browse by keyword at step 1632 with results able to be narrowed down using preference filters at step 1634, browse using other predefined criteria at step 1636 or even browse based on promotional, newly-released or pre-order basis recipes and even live chef cooking events (step 1638). The search results for recipes are displayed to the user in step 1640. The user may then browse these recipe results and preview each recipe in an audio- or short video-clip as part of step 1642. In step 1644, the user then chooses a device and operating system and receives a specific download link for a particular online marketplace application site. Should the user choose at step to connect to a new provider site in task 1648, the site will require the new user to complete an authentication and agreement step 1650, allowing the site to then download and install site-specific interface software in task 1652, to allow the recipe-delivery process to continue. The provider site will query with the user whether to create a robotic cooking shopping list in step 1646, and, if agreed to by the user in step 1654, to select a particular recipe on a single or subscription basis and pick a particular date and time for the dish to be served. In step 1656, the shopping list for the needed ingredients and equipment is provided and displayed to the user, including closest and fastest suppliers and their locations, ingredient and equipment availability and associated delivery lead times and pricing. In step 1658, the user is offered a chance to review each of the items' descriptions and their default or recommended source and brand. The user is then able to view the associated cost of all items on the ingredient and equipment list including all associated line-item costs (shipping, tax, etc.) in step 1660. Should the user or buyer want to view alternatives to the proposed shopping list items in step 1662, a step 1664 is executed to offer the user or buyer links to alternate sources to allow them to connect and view alternative buying and ordering options. If the user or buyer accepts the proposed shopping list, the system not only saves these selections as personalized choices for future purchases at step 1666 and updates the current shopping list at step 1668, but then also moves to step 1670, where it selects the alternatives from the shopping list based on additional criteria such as local/closest providers, item availability based on season and maturation-stage, or even pricing for equipment from different suppliers which has effectively the same performance but differs substantially in delivered cost to the user or buyer.
[00466] FIGS. 64A-B are block diagrams illustrating an example of a predefined recipe search criterion 1672. The predefined recipe search criteria in this example include categories like main ingredients 1672a, cooking duration 1672b, cuisine by geographic regions and types 1672c, chef's name search 1672d, signature dishes 1672e, and estimated ingredient cost to prepare a food dish 1672f. Other possible recipe search fields Include types of meals 1672g, special diet 1672h, exclusion ingredient 1672i, dish types and cooking methodsl672j, occasions and seasons 1672k, reviews and suggestions 16721, and rankings 1672m.
- Ill - [00467] FIG. 65 is a block diagram illustrating some pre-defined containers in the robotic standardized kitchen 50. Each of the containers in the standardized robotic kitchen 50 has a container number or bar code which reference the specific content that is stored in that container. For example, the first container stores large and bulky products, such as white cabbage, red cabbage, savoy cabbage, turnips and cauliflower. The sixth container stores a large fraction of solids by pieces including items like almond shavings, seeds (sunflower, pumpkin, white), dried apricots pitted, dried papaya and dried apricots.
[00468] FIG. 66 is a block diagram illustrating a first embodiment of a robotic restaurant kitchen module 1676 configured in a rectangular layout with multiple pairs of robotic hands for simultaneous food preparation processing. Other types or modification of configuration layout, in addition to the rectangular layout, is contemplated within the spirits of the present disclosure. Another embodiment of the disclosure revolves around a staged configuration for multiple successive or parallel robotic arm and hand stations in a professional or restaurant kitchen setup shown in FIG. 67. The embodiment depicts a more linear configuration, even though any geometric arrangement could be used, showing multiple robotic arm/hand modules, each focused on creating a particular element, dish or recipe script step (e.g. six pairs of robotic arms/hands to serve different roles in a commercial kitchen such as sous-chef, broiler-cook, fry/saute cook, pantry cook, pastry chef, soup and sa uce cook, etc.). The robotic kitchen layout is such that the access/interaction with any human or between neighboring arm/hand modules is along a single forward-facing surface. The setup is capable of being computer-controlled, thereby allowing the entire multi-arm/hand robotic kitchen setup to perform replication cooking tasks respectively, regardless of whether the arm/hand robotic modules execute a single recipe sequentially (end-product from one station gets supplied to the next station for a subsequent step in the recipe script) or multiple recipes/steps in parallel (such as pre-meal food-/ingredient-prepa ration for later use during dish replication completion to meet the time crunch during rush times).
[00469] FIG. 67 is a block diagram illustrating a second embodiment of a robotic restaurant kitchen module 1678 configured in a U-shape layout with multiple pairs of robotic hands for simultaneous food prepa ration processing. Yet another embodiment of the disclosure revolves around another staged configuration for multiple successive or parallel robotic arm and hand stations in a professional or restaurant kitchen setup shown in FIG. 68. The embodiment depicts a rectangular configuration, even though any geometric arrangement could be used, showing multiple robotic arm/hand modules, each focused on creating a particular element, dish or recipe script step. The robotic kitchen layout is such that the access/interaction with any human or between neighboring arm/hand modules is both along a U-shaped outward-facing set of surfaces and along the central-portion of the U-shape, allowing arm/hand modules to pass/reach over to opposing work areas and interact with their opposing arm/hand modules during the recipe replication stages. The setup is capable of being computer- controlled, thereby allowing the entire multi-arm/hand robotic kitchen setup to perform replication cooking tasks respectively, regardless of whether the arm/hand robotic modules execute a single recipe sequentially (end-product from one station gets supplied to the next station along the U-shaped path for a subsequent step in the recipe script) or multiple recipes/steps in parallel (such as pre-meal food- /ingredient-preparation for later use during dish replication completion to meet the time crunch during rush times, with prepared ingredients possibly stored in containers or appliances (fridge, etc.) contained within the base of the U-shaped kitchen).
[00470] FIG. 68 depicts a second embodiment of a robotic food preparation system 1680. The chef studio 44 with the standardized robotic kitchen system 50 includes the human chef 49 preparing or executing a recipe, while sensors on the cookware 1682 record variables (temperature, etc.) over time and store the value of variables in a computer's memory 1684 as sensor curves and parameters that form a part of a recipe script raw data file. The stored sensory curves and parameter software data (or recipe) files from the chef studio 50 are delivered to a standardized (remote) robotic kitchen on a purchase or subscription basis 1686. The standardized robotic kitchen 50 installed in a household includes both the user 48 and the computer controlled system 1688 to operate the automated and/or robotic kitchen equipment based on the received raw data corresponding to the measured sensory curves and parameter data files.
[00471] FIG. 69 depicts a second embodiment of the standardized robotic kitchen 50. The computer 16 that runs the robotic cooking (software) engine 56, which includes a cooking operations control module 1692 that processes recorded, analyzed and abstraction sensory data from the recipe script, and associated storage media and memory 1684 to store software files comprising of sensory curves and parameter data, interfaces with multiple external devices. These external devices include, but are not limited to, sensors for inputting raw data 1694, a retractable safety glass 68, a computer-monitored and computer-controllable storage unit 88, multiple sensors reporting on the process of raw-food quality and supply 198, hard-automation modules 82 to dispense ingredients, standardized containers 86 with ingredients, cook appliances fitted with sensors 1696, and cookware 1700 fitted with sensors. [00472] FIG. 70 depicts an intelligent cookware item 1700 (e.g., a sauce-pot in this image) that includes built-in real-time temperature sensors, capable of generating and wirelessly transmitting a temperature profile across the bottom surface of the unit across at least, but not limited to, three planar zones, including zone-1 1702, zone-2 1704 and zone-3 1706, arranged in concentric circles across the entire bottom surface of the cookware unit. Each of these three zones is capable of wirelessly transmitting respective data-1 1708, data-2 1710 and data-3 1712 based on coupled sensors 1716-1, 1716-2, 1716-3, 1716-4 and 1716-5.
[00473] FIG. 71 depicts a typical set of sensory curves 220 with recorded temperature profiles for data-1 1708, data-2 1710 and data-3 1712, each corresponding to the temperature in each of the three zones at the bottom of a particular area of a cookware unit. The measurement units for time are reflected as cooking time in minutes from start to finish (independent variable), while the temperature is measured in degrees Celsius (dependent variable).
[00474] FIG. 72 depicts a multiple set of sensory curves 1730 with recorded temperature 1732 and humidity 1734 profiles, with the data from each sensor represented as data-1 1708, data-2 1710 all the way to data-N 1712. Streams of raw data are forwarded and processed to and by an electronic (or computer) operating control unit 1736. The measurement units for time are reflected as cooking time in minutes from start to finish (independent variable), while the temperature and humidity values are measured in degrees Celsius and relative humidity, respectively (dependent variables).
[00475] FIG. 73 depicts a smart (frying) pan with process setup for real-time temperature control 1700. A power source 1750 uses three separate control units, but need not be limited to such, including control-unit-1 1752, control-unit-2 1754 and control-unit-3 1756, to actively heat a set of inductive coils. The control is in effect a function of the measured temperature values within each of the (three) zones 1702 (Zone 1), 1704 (Zone 2) and 1706 (Zone 3) of the (frying) pan, where temperature sensors 1716-1 (Sensor 1), 1716-3 (Sensor 2) and 1716-5 (Sensor 3) wirelessly provide temperature data via data streams 1708 (Data 1), 1710 (Data 2) and 1712 (Data 3) back to the operating control unit 274, which in turn directs the power source 1750 to independently control the separate zone-heating control units 1752, 1754 and 1756. The goal is to achieve and replicate the desired temperature curves over time, as the sensory curve data logged during the human che s certain (frying) step during the preparation of a dish.
[00476] FIG. 74 depicts a smart oven and computer control system 1790 that are coupled to the operating control unit 1792, allowing it to execute in real time a temperature profile for the oven appliance 1792, based on a previously stored sensory (temperature) curve. The operating control unit 1792 is able to control the doors (open/close) of the oven, track a temperature profile provided to it by a sensory curve, and post-cooking, self-clean. The temperature and humidity inside the oven are monitored through built-in temperature sensors 1794 in various locations generating a data stream 268 (Data 1), a temperature sensor in the form of a probe inserted into the ingredient to be cooked (meat, poultry, etc.) to monitor cooked temperature to infer degree of cooking completion, and additional humidity sensors 1796 (Data 2) creating a data stream. A temperature 1797 may be use for placement inside a meat or a food dish to determine the temperature in the smart oven 1790. The operating control unit 1792 takes in all this sensory data and adjusts the oven parameters to allow it to properly track the sensory curves described in a previously stored and downloaded set of sensory curves for both (dependent) variables.
[00477] FIG. 75 depicts a (smart) charcoal grill computer-controlled ignition and control system setup 1798 for a power control unit 1800 that modulates electric power to a charcoal grill to properly trace a sensory curve for one or more temperature and humidity sensors internally distributed inside the charcoal grill. The power control unit 1800 receives temperature data 1802, which include temperature data 1 (1802-1), 2 (1802-2), 3 (1802-3), 4 (1802-4), 5 (1802-5), and humidity data 1804, which include temperature data 1 (1804-1), 2 (1804-2), 3 (1804-3), 4 (1804-4), 5 (1804-5). The power control unit 1800 uses electronic control signals 1806, 1808 for various control functions, including to start the grill and the electric ignition system 1810, adjust the grill-surface distance to the charcoal and the injection of water mist over the charcoal 1812, pulverize 1814 charcoal, adjust the temperature and humidity of the movable (up/down) rack 1816, respectively. The control unit 1800 bases its output signals 1806, 1808 on a set of (e.g., five pictured here) data streams 1804 for humidity measurement 1804-1, 1804-2, 1804-3, 1804-4, 1804-5 from a set of distributed humidity sensors (1 through 5) 1818, 1820, 1822, 1824 and 1826 inside the charcoal grill, as well as data streams 1802 for temperature measurements 1802-1, 1802-2, 1802-3, 1802-4 and 1802-5 from distributed temperature sensors (1 through 5) 1828, 1830, 1832, 1834 and 1836.
[00478] FIG. 76 depicts a computer-controlled faucet 1850 to allow the computer to control flow rate, temperature and pressure of water fed by the faucet into the sink (or cookware). The faucet is controlled by a control unit 1862 that receives separate data streams 1862 (Data 1), 1864 (Data 2) and 1866 (Data 3), which correspond to water flow rate sensor 1868 providing Data 1, temperature sensor 1870 providing Data 2, and water pressure sensor 1872 providing Data 3 sensory data. The control unit 1862 then controls the supply of cold water 1874, with appropriate cold-water temperature and pressure displayed digitally on display 1876, and hot water 1878, with appropriate hot-water temperature and pressure displayed digitally on display 1880, to achieve the desired pressure, flow rate and temperature of water exiting at the spigot.
[00479] FIG. 77 depicts an embodiment of an instrumented and standardized robotic kitchen 50 in top plan view. The standardized robotic kitchen is divided in to three levels, namely the top level 1292-1, the counter level 1292-2 and the lower level 1292-3, with each level containing equipment and appliances that have integrally mounted sensors 1884a, 1884b, 1884c and computer-control units 1886a, 1886b, 1886c.
[00480] The top level 1292-1 contains multiple cabinet-type modules with different units to perform specific kitchen functions by way of built-in appliances and equipment. At the simplest level a shelf/cabinet storage area 1304 is included with the hard automation ingredient supplier 1305, a cabinet volume 1296 used for storing and accessing cooking tools and utensils and other cooking and serving ware (cooking, baking, plating, etc.), a storage ripening cabinet volume 1298 for particular ingredients (e.g. fruit and vegetables, etc.), a chilled storage zone 1300 for such items as lettuce and onions, a frozen storage cabinet volume 1302 for deep-frozen items, and another storage pantry zone 1304 for other ingredients and rarely used spices, etc. Each of the modules within the top level contains sensor units 1884a providing data to one or more control units 1886a, either directly or by way of one or more central or distributed control computers, to allow for computer-controlled operations.
[00481] The counter level 1292-2not only houses monitoring sensors 1884b and control units 1886b, but also includes a serving counter 1306, a counter area with a sink 1308, another counter area 1310 with removable working surfaces (cutting/chopping board, etc.), a charcoal-based slatted grill 1312 and a multi-purpose area for other cooking appliances 1314, including a stove, cooker, steamer and poacher. Each of the modules within the counter level contains sensor units 1884b providing data to one or more control units 1886b, either directly or by way of one or more central or distributed control computers, to allow for computer-controlled operations.
[00482] The lower level 1292-3 houses the combination convection oven and microwave as well as steamer, poacher and grill 1316, the dish-washer 1318 and a larger cabinet volume 1320 that holds and stores additional frequently used cooking and baking ware, as well as tableware, flatware, utensils (whisks, knives, etc.) and cutlery. Each of the modules within the lower level contains sensor units 1884c providing data to one or more control units 1886c, either directly or by way of one or more central or distributed control computers, to allow for computer-controlled operations.
[00483] FIG. 78 depicts a perspective view of one embodiment of a robotic kitchen cooking system 50, with three different levels arranged from top to bottom, each fitted with multiple and distributed sensor units 1892 which feed data directly to one or more control units 1894, or to one or more central computers, which in turn use and process the sensory data to then command one or more control units 376 to act on their commands.
[00484] The top level 1292-1 contains multiple cabinet-type modules with different units to perform specific kitchen functions by way of built-in appliances and equipment. At the simplest level a shelf/cabinet storage pantry volume 1294 is included, a cabinet volume 1296 used for storing and accessing cooking tools and utensils and other cooking and serving ware (cooking, baking, plating, etc.), a storage ripening cabinet volume 1298 for particular ingredients (e.g. fruit and vegetables, etc.), a chilled storage zone 88 for such items as lettuce and onions, a frozen storage cabinet volume 1302 for deep-frozen items, and another storage pantry zone 1294 for other ingredients and rarely used spices, etc. Each of the modules within the top level contains sensor units 1892 providing data to one or more control units 1894, either directly or by way of one or more central or distributed control computers, to allow for computer-controlled operations.
[00485] The counter level 1292-2 not only houses monitoring sensors 1892 and control units 1894, but also includes a counter area with a sink and electronically controllable faucet 1308, another counter area 1310 with removable working surfaces for cutting/chopping on a board, etc., a charcoal-based slatted grill 1312, and a multi-purpose area for other cooking appliances 1314, including a stove, cooker, steamer and poacher. Each of the modules within the counter level contains sensor units 1892 providing data to one or more control units 1894, either directly or by way of one or more central or distributed control computers, to allow for computer-controlled operations.
[00486] The lower level 1292-3 houses the combination convection oven and microwave as well as steamer, poacher and grill 1316, the dish-washer 1318, the hard automation controlled ingredient dispensers 1305, and a larger cabinet volume 1310 that holds and stores additional frequently used cooking and baking ware, as well as tableware, flatware, utensils (whisks, knives, etc.) and cutlery. Each of the modules within the lower level contains sensor units 1892 providing data to one or more control units 1896, either directly or by way of one or more central or distributed control computers, to allow for computer-controlled operations. [00487] FIG. 79 is a flow diagram illustrating a second embodiment 1900 in the process of the robotic kitchen preparing a dish from one or more previously recorded parameter curves in a standardized robotic kitchen. In step 1902, a user, through a computer, selects a particular recipe for the robotic apparatus 75 to prepare the food dish. In step 1904, the robotic food preparation engine is configured to retrieve the abstraction recipe for the selected recipe for food preparation. In step 1906, the robotic food preparation engine is configured to upload the selected recipe script into the computer's memory. In step 1908, the robotic food preparation engine calculates the ingredient availability. In step 1910, the robotic food preparation engine is configured to evaluate whether there is a shortage or an absence of ingredients to prepare the dish according to the selected recipe and serving schedule. The robotic food preparation engine sends an alert to place missing or insufficient ingredients on a shopping list or selects an alternate recipe in step 1912. The recipe selection by the user is confirmed in step 1914. In step 1916, the robotic food preparation engine is configured to send robotic instructions to the user to place food or ingredients into standardized containers and move them to the proper food preparation position. In step 1918, the user is given the option to select a real-time video- monitor projection, whether on a dedicated monitor or a holographic laser-based projection, to visually see each and every step of the recipe replication process based on all movements and processes executed by the chef while being recorded for playback in this instance. In step 1920, the robotic food preparation engine is configured to allow the user to start food preparation at start time "0" of their choosing and powering on the computerized control system for the standardized robotic kitchen. In step 1922, the user executes a replication of all the chefs actions based on the playback of the entire recipe creation process by the human chef on the monitor/projection screen, whereby semi-finished products are moved to designated cookware and appliances or intermediate storage containers for later use. In step 1924, the robotic apparatus 75 in the standardized kitchen executes the individual processing steps according to sensory data curves or based on cooking parameters recorded when the chef executed the same step in the recipe preparation process in the chef studio's standardized robotic kitchen. In step 1926 the robotic food preparation's computer controls all the cookware and appliance settings in terms of temperature, pressure and humidity to replicate the required data curves over the entire cooking time based on the data captured and saved while the chef was preparing the recipe in the chefs studio standardized robotic kitchen. In step 1928, the user makes all simple movements to replicate the chefs steps and process movements as evidenced through the audio and video instructions relayed to the user over the monitor or projection screen. In step 1930, the robotic kitchen's cooking engine alerts the user when a particular cooking step based on a sensory curve or parameter set has been completed. Once the user and computer controller interactions result in the completion of all cooking steps in the recipe, the robotic cooking engine sends a request to terminate the computer-controlled portion of the replication process in step 1932. In step 1934, the user removes the completed recipe dish, plates and serves it, or continues any remaining cooking steps or processes manually.
[00488] FIG. 80 depicts one embodiment of the sensory data capturing process 1936 in the chef studio. The first step 1938 is for the chef to create or design the recipe. A next step 1940 requires that the chef input the name, ingredients, measurement and process descriptions for the recipe into the robotic cooking engine. The chef begins by loading all the required ingredients into designated standardized storage containers, appliances and select appropriate cookware in step 1942. The next step 1944 involves the chef setting the start time and switching on the sensory and processing systems to record all sensed raw data and allow for processing of the same. Once the chef starts cooking in step 1946, all embedded and monitoring sensor units and appliances report and send raw data to the central computer system to allow it to record in real time all relevant data during the entire cooking process 1948. Additional cooking parameters and audible chef comments are further recorded and stored as raw data in step 1950. A robotic cooking module abstraction (software) engine processes all raw data, including two- and three-dimensional geometric motion and object recognition data, to generate a machine-readable and machine-executable recipe script as part of step 1952. Upon completion of the chef studio recipe creation and cooking process by the chef, the robotic cooking engine generates a simulation visualization program 1954 replicating the movement and media data used for later recipe replication by a remote standardized robotic kitchen system. Based on the raw and processed data, and a confirmation of the simulated recipe execution visualization by the chef, hardware-specific applications are developed and integrated for different (mobile) operating systems and submitted to online software-application stores and/or marketplaces in step 1956, for direct single-recipe user purchase or multi-recipe purchase via subscription models.
[00489] FIG. 81 depicts the process and flow of a household robotic cooking process 1960. The first step 1962 involves the user selecting a recipe and acquiring the digital form of the recipe. In step 1964, the robotic cooking engine receives the recipe script containing machine-readable commands to cook the selected recipe. The recipe is uploaded in step 1966 to the robotic cooking engine with the script being placed in memory. Once stored, step 1968 calculates the necessary ingredients and determines their availability. In a logic check 1970 the system determines whether to alert the user or send a suggestion in step 1972 urging adding missing items to the shopping list or suggesting an alternative recipe to suit the available ingredients, or to proceed should sufficient ingredients be available. Once ingredient availability is verified in step 1974, the system confirms the recipe and the user is queried in step 1976 to place the required ingredients into designated standardized containers in a position where the chef started the recipe creation process originally (in the chef studio). The user is prompted to set the start time of the cooking process and to set the cooking system to proceed in step 1978. Upon startup, the robotic cooking system begins the execution of the cooking process 1980 in real time according to sensory curves and cooking parameter data provided in the recipe script data files. During the cooking process 1982, the computer, to replicate the sensory curves and parameter data files originally captured and saved during the chef studio recipe creation process, controls all appliances and equipment. Upon completion of the cooking process, the robotic cooking engine sends a reminder based on having decided the cooking process is finished in step 1984. Subsequently the robotic cooking engine sends a termination request 1986 to the computer-control system to terminate the entire cooking process, and in step 1988, the user removes the dish from the counter for serving or continues any remaining cooking steps manually.
[00490] FIG. 82 depicts one embodiment of a standardized robotic food preparation kitchen system 50 with a command, visual monitoring module 1990. The computer 16 that runs the robotic cooking (software) engine 56, which includes the cooking operations control module 1990 that processes recorded, analyzed and abstraction sensory data from the recipe script, the visual command monitoring module 1990, and associated storage media and memory 1684 to store software files comprising of sensory curves and parameter data, interfaces with multiple external devices. These external devices include, but are not limited to, an instrumented kitchen working counter 90, the retractable safety glass 68, the instrumented faucet 92, cooking appliances with embedded sensors 74, cookware 1700 with embedded sensors (stored on a shelf or in a cabinet), standardized containers and ingredient storage units 78, a computer-monitored and computer-controllable storage unit 88, multiple sensors reporting on the process of raw food quality and supply 1694, hard automation modules 82 to dispense ingredients, and the operations control module 1692.
[00491] FIG. 83 depicts an embodiment of a fully instrumented robotic kitchen 2000 in top plan view with one or more robotic arms 70. The standardized robotic kitchen is divided into three levels, namely the top level 1292-1, the counter level 1292-2 and the lower levell292-3 , with each level containing equipment and appliances that have integrally mounted sensors 1884a, 1884b, 1884c and computer- control units 1886a, 1886b, 1886c.
[00492] The top level 1292-1 contains multiple cabinet-type modules with different units to perform specific kitchen functions by way of built-in appliances and equipment. At the simplest level this includes a cabinet volume 1296 used for storing and accessing cooking tools and utensils and other cooking and serving ware (cooking, baking, plating, etc.), a storage ripening cabinet volume 1298 for particular ingredients (e.g. fruit and vegetables, etc.), the hard automation controlled ingredient dispensers 1305, a chilled storage zone 1300 for such items as lettuce and onions, a frozen storage cabinet volume 1302 for deep-frozen items, and another storage pantry zone 1304 for other ingredients and rarely used spices, etc. Each of the modules within the top level contains sensor units 1884a providing data to one or more control units 1886a, either directly or by way of one or more central or distributed control computers, to allow for computer-controlled operations.
[00493] The counter level 1292-2 not only houses monitoring sensors 1884 and control units 1886, but also includes the one or more robotic arms, wrists and multi-fingered hands 72, a serving counter 1306, a counter area with a sink 1308, another counter area 1310 with removable working surfaces (cutting/chopping board, etc.), a charcoal-based slatted grill 1312 and a multi-purpose area for other cooking appliances 1314, including a stove, cooker, steamer and poacher. In the embodiment, the pair of robotic arms 70 and hands 72 operate to carry out a specific task as controlled by one or more central or distributed control computers, to allow for computer-controlled operations.
[00494] The lower level 1292-3 houses the combination convection oven and microwave as well as steamer, poacher and grill 1316, the dish-washer 1318, and a larger cabinet volume 1320 that holds and stores additional frequently used cooking and baking ware, as well as tableware, flatware, utensils (whisks, knives, etc.) and cutlery. Each of the modules within the lower level contains sensor units 1884c providing data to one or more control units 1886c, either directly or by way of one or more central or distributed control computers, to allow for computer-controlled operations.
[00495] FIG. 84 depicts an embodiment of a fully instrumented robotic kitchen 2000 in perspective view, with an overlaid coordinate frame designating the x-axis 1322, the y-axis 1324 and the z-axis 1326, within which all movements and locations will be defined and referenced to the origin (0,0,0). The standardized robotic kitchen is divided in to three levels, namely the top level, the counter level and the lower level, with each level containing equipment and appliances that have integrally mounted sensors 1884 and computer-control units 1886. [00496] The top level contains multiple cabinet-type modules with different units to perform specific kitchen functions by way of built-in appliances and equipment.
[00497] At the simplest level this includes a cabinet volume 1294 used for storing and accessing standardized cooking tools and utensils and other cooking and serving ware (cooking, baking, plating, etc.), a storage ripening cabinet volume 1298 for particular ingredients (e.g. fruit and vegetables, etc.), a chilled storage zone 1300 for such items as lettuce and onions, a frozen storage cabinet volume 86 for deep-frozen items, and another storage pantry zone 1294 for other ingredients and rarely used spices, etc. Each of the modules within the top level contains sensor units 1884a providing data to one or more control units 1886a, either directly or by way of one or more central or distributed control computers, to allow for computer-controlled operations.
[00498] The counter level not only houses monitoring sensors 1884 and control units 1886, but also includes the one or more robotic arms, wrists and multi-fingered hands 72, a counter area with a sink and electronic faucet 1308, another counter area 1310 with removable working surfaces (cutting/chopping board, etc.), a charcoal-based slatted grill 1312 and a multi-purpose area for other cooking appliances 1314, including a stove, cooker, steamer and poacher. The pair of robotic arms 70 and the respective associated robotic hands conduct a specific task as directed by one or more central or distributed control computers, to allow for computer-controlled operations.
[00499] The lower level houses the combination convection oven and microwave as well as steamer, poacher and grill 1315, the dish-washer 1318, the hard automation controlled ingredient dispensers 82 (not shown), and a larger cabinet volume 1310 that holds and stores additional frequently used cooking and baking ware, as well as tableware, flatware, utensils (whisks, knives, etc.) and cutlery. Each of the modules within the lower level contains sensor units 1884c providing data to one or more control units 1886c, either directly or by way of one or more central or distributed control computers, to allow for computer-controlled operations.
[00500] FIG. 85 depicts an embodiment of an instrumented and standardized robotic kitchen 50 in top plan view with a command, visual monitoring module or device 1990. The standardized robotic kitchen is divided into three levels, namely the top level, the counter level and the lower level, with the top and lower levels containing equipment and appliances that have integrally mounted sensors 1884 and computer-control units 1886, and the counter level being fitted with one or more command and visual monitoring devices 2022. [00501] The top level 1292-1 contains multiple cabinet-type modules with different units to perform specific kitchen functions by way of built-in appliances and equipment. At the simplest level this includes a cabinet volume 1296 used for storing and accessing standardized cooking tools and utensils and other cooking and serving ware (cooking, baking, plating, etc.), a storage ripening cabinet volume 1298 for particular ingredients (e.g. fruit and vegetables, etc.), a chilled storage zone 1300 for such items as lettuce and onions, a frozen storage cabinet volume 1302 for deep-frozen items, and another storage pantry zone 1304 for other ingredients and rarely used spices, etc. Each of the modules within the top level contains sensor units 1884 providing data to one or more control units 1886, either directly or by way of one or more central or distributed control computers, to allow for computer-controlled operations.
[00502] The counter level 1292-2 houses not only monitoring sensors 1884 and control units 1886, but also visual command monitoring devices 2020 while also including a serving counter 1306, a counter area with a sink 1308, another counter area 1310 with removable working surfaces (cutting/chopping board, etc.), a charcoal-based slatted grill 1312 and a multi-purpose area for other cooking appliances 1314, including a stove, cooker, steamer and poacher. Each of the modules within the counter level contains sensor units 1884 providing data to one or more control units 1886, either directly or by way of one or more central or distributed control computers, to allow for computer-controlled operations. Additionally, one or more visual command monitoring devices 1990 are also provided within the counter level for the purposes of monitoring the visual operations of the human chef in the studio kitchen as well as the robotic arms or human user in the standardized robotic kitchen, where data is fed to one or more central or distributed computers for processing and subsequent corrective or supportive feedback and commands sent back to the robotic kitchen for display or script-following execution.
[00503] The lower level 1292-3 houses the combination convection oven and microwave as well as steamer, poacher and grill 1316, the dish-washer 1318, the hard automation controlled ingredient dispensers 86 (not shown), and a larger cabinet volume 1320 that holds and stores additional frequently used cooking and baking ware, as well as tableware, flatware, utensils (whisks, knives, etc.) and cutlery. Each of the modules within the lower level contains sensor units 1884 providing data to one or more control units 1886, either directly or by way of one or more central or distributed control computers, to allow for computer-controlled operations. In this embodiment, the hard automation ingredient supplier 1305 is designed in the lower level 1292-3. [00504] FIG. 86 depicts an embodiment of a fully instrumented robotic kitchen 2020 in perspective view. The standardized robotic kitchen is divided into three levels, namely the top level, the counter level and the lower level, with the top and lower levels containing equipment and appliances that have integrally mounted sensors 1884 and computer-control units 1886, and the counter level being fitted with one or more command and visual monitoring devices 2022.
[00505] The top level contains multiple cabinet-type modules with different units to perform specific kitchen functions by way of built-in appliances and equipment. At the simplest level this includes a cabinet volume 1296 used for storing and accessing standardized cooking tools and utensils and other cooking and serving ware (cooking, baking, plating, etc.), a storage ripening cabinet volume 1298 for particular ingredients (e.g. fruit and vegetables, etc.), a chilled storage zone 1300 for such items as lettuce and onions, a frozen storage cabinet volume 86 for deep-frozen items, and another storage pantry zone 1294 for other ingredients and rarely used spices, etc. Each of the modules within the top level contains sensor units 1884 providing data to one or more control units 1886, either directly or by way of one or more central or distributed control computers, to allow for computer-controlled operations.
[00506] The counter level 1292-2 houses not only monitoring sensors 1884 and control units 1886, but also visual command monitoring devices 1316 while also including a counter area with a sink and electronic faucet 1308, another counter area 1310 with removable working surfaces (cutting/chopping board, etc.), a (smart) charcoal-based slatted grill 1312 and a multi-purpose area for other cooking appliances 1314, including a stove, cooker, steamer and poacher. Each of the modules within the counter level contains sensor units 1184 providing data to one or more control units 1186, either directly or by way of one or more central or distributed control computers, to allow for computer- controlled operations. Additionally, one or more visual command monitoring devices (not shown) are also provided within the counter level for the purposes of monitoring the visual operations of the human chef in the studio kitchen as well as the robotic arms or human user in the standardized robotic kitchen, where data is fed to one or more central or distributed computers for processing and subsequent corrective or supportive feedback and commands sent back to the robotic kitchen for display or script-following execution.
[00507] The lower level 1292-3 houses the combination convection oven and microwave as well as steamer, poacher and grill 1316, the dish-washer 1318, the hard automation controlled ingredient dispensers 86 (not showedjs, and a larger cabinet volume 1309 that holds and stores additional frequently used cooking and baking ware, as well as tableware, flatware, utensils (whisks, knives, etc.) and cutlery. Each of the modules within the lower level contains sensor units 1307 providing data to one or more control units 376, either directly or by way of one or more central or distributed control computers, to allow for computer-controlled operations.
[00508] FIG. 87A depicts another embodiment of the standardized robotic kitchen system 48. The computer 16 that runs the robotic cooking (software) engine 56 and the memory module 52 for storing recipe script data and sensory curves and parameter data files, interfaces with multiple external devices. These external devices include, but are not limited to, instrumented robotic kitchen stations 2030, instrumented serving stations 2032, an instrumented washing and cleaning station 2034, instrumented cookware 2036, computer-monitored and computer-controllable cooking appliances 2038, special- purpose tools and utensils 2040, an automated shelf station 2042, an instrumented storage station 2044, an ingredient retrieval station 2046, a user console interface 2048, dual robotic arms 70 and robotic hands 72, hard automation modules 1305 to dispense ingredients, and an optional chef- recording device 2050.
[00509] FIG. 87B depicts one embodiment of a robotic kitchen cooking system 2060 in plan view, where a humanoid 2056 (or the chef 49, a home-cook user or a commercial user 60) can access various cooking stations from multiple (four shown here) sides, where the humanoid would walk around the robotic food preparation kitchen system 2060, as illustrated in FIG. 87B, by accessing the shelves from around a robotic kitchen module 2058. A central storage station 2062 provides for different storage areas for various food items held at different temperatures (chilled/frozen) for optimum freshness, allowing access from all sides. Along the perimeter of the square arrangement of the current embodiment, a humanoid 2052 the chef 49 or user 60 can access various cooking areas with modules that include, but are not limited to, a user/chef console 2064 for laying out the recipe and overseeing the processes, an ingredient access station 2066 including a scanner, camera and other ingredient characterization systems, an automatic shelf station 2068 for cookware/baking ware/tableware, a washing and cleaning station 2070 comprising at least a sink and dish-washer unit, a specialized tool and utensil station 2072 for specialized tools required for particular techniques used in food or ingredient preparation, a warming station 2074 for warming or chilling served dishes and a cooking appliance station 2076 comprising multiple appliances including, but not limited to, an oven, stove, grill, steamer, fryer, microwave, blender, dehydrator, etc. [00510] FIG. 87C depicts a perspective view of the same embodiment of the robotic kitchen 2058, allowing the humanoid 2056 (or a chef 49 or a user 60) to gain access to multiple cooking stations and equipment from at least four different sides. A central storage station 2062 provides for different storage areas for various food items held at different temperatures (chilled/frozen) for optimum freshness, allowing access from all sides, and is located at an elevated level. An automatic shelf station 2068 for cookware/baking ware/tableware is located at a middle level beneath the central storage station 2062. At a lower level an arrangement of cooking stations and equipment is located that includes, but is not limited to, a user/chef console 2064 for laying out the recipe and overseeing the processes, an ingredient access station 2060 including a scanner, camera and other ingredient characterization systems, an automatic shelf station 2068 for cookware/baking ware/tableware, a washing and cleaning station 2070 comprising at least a sink and dish-washer unit, a specialized tool and utensil station 2072 for specialized tools required for particular techniques used in food or ingredient preparation, a warming station 2076 for warming or chilling served dishes and a cooking appliance station 2076 comprising multiple appliances including, but not limited to, an oven, stove, grill, steamer, fryer, microwave, blender, dehydrator, etc.
[00511] FIG. 88 is a block diagram Illustrating a robotic human-emulator electronic intellectual property (IP) library 2100. The robotic human-emulator electronic IP library 2100 covers the various concepts in which the robotic apparatus 75 is used as a means to replicate a human's particular skill set. More specifically, the robotic apparatus 75, which includes the pair of robotic hands 70 and the robotic arms 72, serves to replicate a set of specific human skills. In some way, the transfer to intelligence from a human can be captured using the human's hands; the robotic apparatus 75 then replicates the precise movements of the recorded movements in obtaining the same result. The robotic human-emulator electronic IP library 2100 includes a robotic human-culinary-skill replication engine 56, a robotic human- painting-skill replication engine 2102, a robotic human-musical-instrument-skill replication engine 2104, a robotic human-nursing-care-skill replication engine 2106, a robotic human-emotion recognizing engine 2108, a robotic human-intelligence replication engine 2110, an input/output module 2112, and a communication module 2114. The robotic human emotion recognizing engine 1358 is further described with respect to FIGS. 89, 90, 91, 92 and 93.
[00512] FIG. 89 is a robotic human-emotion engine recognizing (or response) engine 2108, which includes a training block coupled to an application block via the bus 2120. The training block contains a human input stimuli module 2122, a sensor module 2124, a human emotion response module (to input stimuli) 2126, an emotion response recording module 2128, a quality check module 2130, and a learning machine module 2132. The application block contains an input analysis module 2134, a sensor module 2136, a response generating module 2138, and a feedback adjustment module 2140.
[00513] FIG. 90 is a flow diagram illustrating the process and logic flow of a robotic human emotion method 250 in the robotic human emotion (computer-operated) engine 2108. In its first step 2151, the (software) engine receives sensory input from a variety of sources akin to the senses of a human, including vision, audible feedback, tactile and olfactory sensor data from the surrounding environment. In the decision step 2152, the decision is made whether to create a motion reflex, either resulting in a reflex motion 2153 or, if no reflex motion is required, step 2154 is executed, where specific input information or patterns or combinations thereof are recognized based on information or patterns stored in memory, which are subsequently translated into abstraction or symbolic representations. The abstraction and/or symbolic information is processed through a sequence of intelligence loops, which can be experience-based. Another decision step 2156 decides on whether a motion-reaction 2157 should be engaged based on a known and pre-defined behavior model and, if not, step 12158 is undertaken. In step 2158 the abstraction and/or symbolic information is then processed through another layer of emotion- and mood-reaction behavior loops with inputs provided from internal memories, which can be formed through learning. Emotion is broken down into a mathematical formalism and programmed into robot, with mechanisms that can be described, and quantities that can be measured and analyzed (e.g. by capturing facial expressions of how quickly a smile forms and how long it lasts to differentiate between a genuine and a polite smile, or by detecting emotion based on the vocal qualities of a speaker, where the computer measures the pitch, energy and volume of the voice, as well as the fluctuations in volume and pitch from one moment to the next). There will thus be certain identifiable and measurable metrics to an emotional expression, where these metrics in the behavior of an animal or the sound of a human speaking or singing will have identifiable and measurable associated emotion attributes. Based on these identifiable and measurable metrics, the emotion engine can make a decision 2159 as to which behavior to engage, whether pre-learned or newly learned. The engaged or executed behavior and its effective result are updated in memory and added to the experience personality and natural behavior database 2160. In a follow-on step 2161, the experience personality data is translated into more human-specific information, which then allows him or her to execute the prescribed or resultant motion 2162. [00514] FIGS. 91A-C are flow diagrams illustrating the process 2180 of comparing a person's emotional profile against a population of emotional profiles with hormones, pheromones and others. FIG. 91A describes the process 2182 of the emotional profile application, where a person's emotion parameters are monitored and extracted from a user's general profile 2184, and based on a stimulus input, parameter value changes from a baseline value derived from a segmented timeline, taken and compared to those for an existing larger group under similar conditions. The robotic human emotion engine 2108 is configured to extract parameters from general emotional profile among existing groups in the central database. By monitoring a person's emotion parameters under a defined condition: with a stimulus input, each parameter value changes from baseline to current mean value derived from a segment of timeline. The user's data is compared to the existing profile obtained on a large group under same emotion profile or condition, which through a degrouping process an emotion and it emotional intensity level can be determined. Some potential applications include a robot companion, a dating service, detecting contempt, product market acceptance, under treated pain in kids, e-learning, and children with autism. At step 2186, first level degrouping based on one or more criteria parameters (e.g., degroup based on the speed of change of people with the same emotional parameters). The process continues the emotion parameter degrouping and segregation into further steps of emotional parameter comparisons, as shown in FIG. 92A, which can include continued levels represented by a set of pheromones, a set of micro-expressions 2223, the person's heart rate and perspiration 2225, pupil dilation 2226, observed reflexive movements 2229, awareness of overall body temperature 2224, and perceived situational pressure or reflex movement 2229. The degrouped emotion parameters are then used to determine a similar grouping of parameters 1815 for comparison purposes. In alternative embodiment, the degroupting process can be further refine as illustrated into the second level degrouping 2187 based on the second one or more criteria parameters, and the third level degrouping 2188 based on the third one or more criteria parameters.
[00515] FIG. 91B depicts all the individual emotion groupings such as immediate emotions 2190 such as anger, secondary emotions 2191 such as fear, all the way through to N actual emotions 2192. The next step 2193 then computes the associated emotion(s) in each group according to the associated emotional profile data, leading to the assessment 2194 of the intensity level of the emotional state, which allows the engine to then decide on the appropriate action 2195.
[00516] FIG. 91C depicts the automated process 2200 of mass group emotional profile development and learning. The process involves receiving new multi-source emotional profile and condition inputs from various sources 2202, with an associated quality-check of profile/parameter data change 2208. The plurality of the emotional profile data is stored in step 2204 and, using multiple machine learning techniques 2206, an iterative loop 2210 of analyzing and classifying each profile and data set into various groupings with matching (sub-)sets in the central database is carried out.
[00517] FIG. 92A is a block diagram illustrating the emotional detection and analysis 2220 of a person's emotional state by monitoring a set of hormones, a set of pheromones, and other key parameters. A person's emotional state can be detected by monitoring and analyzing the person's physiological signs, under a defined condition with internal and/or external stimulus, and assessing how these physiological signs change over a certain timeline. One embodiment of the degrouping process is based on one or more criteria parameters (e.g., degroup based on the speed of change of people with the same emotional parameters).
[00518] In one embodiment, the emotional profile can be detected via machine learning methods based on statistical classifiers where the inputs are any measured levels of pheromones, hormones, or other features such as visual or auditory cues. If the set of features is {x!, x2, x3, xn} represented as a vector and y represents the emotional state, then the general form of an emotion-detection statistical classifier is:
Figure imgf000131_0001
Where the function f is a decision tree, a neural network, a logistic regressor, or other statistical classifier described in the machine learning literature. The first term minimizes the empirical error (the error detected while training the classifier) and the second term minimizes the complexity - e.g. Occam's razor, finding the simplest function and set of parameters p for that function that yield the desired result.
[00519] Additionally, in order to determine which pheromones or other features make the most difference (add the most value) to predicting emotional state, an active-learning criterion can be added, generally expresse s:
Figure imgf000131_0002
Where L is a "loss function", f is the same statistical classifier as in the previous equation, and y-hat is the known outcome. We measure whether the statistical classifier performs better (smaller loss function) by addition new features, and if so keep them, otherwise not.
[00520] Parameters, values and quantities that evolve over time can be assessed to create a human emotional profile by detecting the change or transformation from one moment to the next. There are identifiable qualities to an emotional expression. A robot with emotions in response to its environment could make quicker and more effective decisions, e.g. when a robot is motivated by fear or joy or desire it might make better decisions and attain the goals more effectively and efficiently.
[00521] The robotic emotion engine replicates the human hormone emotions and pheromone emotions, either individually or in combination. Hormone emotions refer to how hormones change inside of a person's body and how that affects a person's emotions. Pheromone emotions refer to pheromones that are outside a person's body, such as smell, that affect a person's emotions. A person's emotional profile can be constructed by understanding and analyzing the hormone and pheromone emotions. The robotic emotion engine attempts to understand a person's emotions such as anger and fear by using sensors to detect a person's hormone and pheromone profile.
[00522] There are nine key physiological sign parameters to be measured in order to build a person's emotional profile: (1) sets of hormones 2221, which are secreted internally and trigger various biochemical pathways that cause certain effects, e.g. adrenalin and insulin are hormones, (2) sets of pheromones 2222, which are secreted externally, and have an effect on another person in a similar way, e.g. androstenol, androstenone and androstadienone, (3) micro expression 2223, which is a brief, involuntary facial expression shown by humans according to emotions experienced, (4) the heart rate 2224 or heart beat, e.g., when a person's heart rate increases, (5) sweat 2225 (e.g., goose bumps) e.g. face blushes and palms get sweaty and in the state of being excited or nervous, (6) pupil dilation 2226 (and iris sphincter, biliary muscle), e.g. pupil dilation for a short time in response to feelings of fear, (7) reflex movement v7, which is the movement/action primarily controlled by the spinal arc, as a response to an external stimulus, e.g. jaw jerk reflex, (8) body temperature 2228 (9) pressure 2229. The analysis 2230 on how these parameters change over a certain time 2231 may reveal a person's emotional state and profile.
[00523] FIG. 92B is a block diagram illustrating a robot assessing and learning about a person's emotional behavior. The parameter readings are analyzed 2240 and divided into emotion and/or non- emotional responses, with internal stimulus 2242 and/or external stimulus 2244, e.g. pupillary light reflex is only at the level of the spinal cord, pupil size can change when a person is angry, in pain, or in love, whereas involuntary responses generally involve the brain as well. Use of central nervous system stimulant drugs and some hallucinogenic drugs can cause dilation of the pupils.
[00524] FIG. 93 is a block diagram illustrating a port device 2230 implanted in a person to detect and record the person's emotional profile. When measuring the physiological signs change, a person can monitor and record the emotional profile for a time period by pressing a button with a first tag on the time at which the change of emotion has started and touch the button again with a second tag when the emotion change has concluded. This process enables a computer to assess and learn about a person's emotional profile based on the change in emotion parameters. With data/information collected from mass amount of users the computer classifies all changes associated with each emotion and mathematically finds the significant and specific parameter changes that are attributable to particular emotion characteristics.
[00525] When a user experiences an emotion or mood swing, physiological parameters such as hormone, heart rate, sweat, pheromones can be detected and recorded with a port connecting to a person's body, above the skin and directly to the vein. The start time and end time of the mood change can be determined by the person himself or herself as the person's emotional state changes. For example, a person initiates four manual emotion cycles and creates four timelines within a week, and as determined by the person, the first one lasts 2.8 hour from the time he tags the start till the time he tags the end. The second cycle last for 2 hours, the third one last for 0.8 hours, and the fourth one last for 1.6 hours.
[00526] FIG. 94A depicts a robotic human-intelligence engine 2250. In the replication engine 1360, there are two main blocks, including a training block and an application block, both containing multiple additional modules all interconnected to each other over a common inter-module communication bus 2252. The training block of the human-intelligence engine contains further modules, including, but not limited to, a sensor input module 2522, a human input stimuli module 2254, a human intelligence response module 2256 that reacts to input stimuli, an intelligence response recording module 2258, a quality check module 2260 and a learning machine module 2262. The application block of the human- intelligence engine contains further modules, including, but not limited to, an input analysis module 2264, a sensor input module 2266, a response generating module 2268, and a feedback adjustment module 2270. [00527] FIG. 94B depicts the architecture of the robotic human intelligence system 2108. The system is split into both the cognitive robotic agent and the human-skill execution module. Both modules share sensing feedback data 2109, as well as sensed motion data and modeled motion data. The cognitive robotic agent module includes, but is not necessarily limited to, modules that represent a knowledge database 2282, interconnected to an adjustment and revision module 2286, with both being updated through a learning module 2288. Existing knowledge 2290 is fed into the execution monitoring module 2292 as well as existing knowledge 2294 being fed into the automated analysis and reasoning module 2296, where both receive sensing feedback data 2109 from the human-skill execution module, with both also providing information to the learning module 2288. The human-skill execution module comprises both a control module 2209 that bases its control signals on collecting and processing multiple sources of feedback (visual and auditory), as well as a module 2230 with a robot utilizing standardized equipment, tools and accessories.
[00528] FIG. 95A depicts the architecture for a robotic painting system 2102. Included in this system are both a studio robotic painting system 2332 and a commercial robotic painting system 2334, communicatively connected to allow software program files or applications 2336 for robotic painting to be delivered from the studio robotic painting system 2332 to the commercial robotic painting system 2334 based on a single-unit purchase or subscription-based payment basis. The studio robotic painting system 2332 comprises a (human) painting artist 2337 and a computer 2338 that is interfaced to motion and action sensing devices and painting-frame capture sensors to capture and record the artist's movements and processes, and store in memory 2340 the associated software painting files. The commercial robotic painting system 2334 is comprised of a user 2342 and a computer 2344 with a robotic painting engine capable of interfacing and controlling robotic arms to recreate the movements of the painting artist 2337 according to the software painting files or applications along with visual feedback for the purpose of calibrating a simulation model.
[00529] FIG. 95B depicts the robotic painting system architecture 2350. The architecture includes a computer 2374, which is interfaced to/with multiple external devices, including, but not limited to, motion sensing input devices and touch-frame 2354, a standardized workstation 2356, including an easel 2384, a rinsing sink 2360, an art horse 2362, a storage cabinet 2634 and material containers 2366 (paint, solvents, etc.), as well as standardized tools and accessories (brushes, paints, etc.) 2368, visual input devices (camera, etc.) 2370, and one or more robotic arms 70 and robotic hands (or at least one gripper) 72. [00530] The computer module 2374 includes modules that include, but are not limited to, a robotic painting engine 2376 interfaced to a painting movement emulator 2378, a painting control module 2380 that acts based on visual feedback of the painting execution processes, a memory module 2382 to store painting execution program files, algorithms 2384 for learning the selection and usage of the appropriate drawing tools, as well as an extended simulation validation and calibration module 2386.
[00531] FIG. 95C depicts a robotic human-painting skill-replication engine 2102. In the robotic human-painting skill-replication replication engine 2102, there are multiple additional modules all interconnected to each other over a common inter-module communication bus 2393. The replication engine 2102 contains further modules, including, but not limited to, an input module 2392, a paint movement recording module 2394, an ancillary/additional sensory data recording module 2396, a painting movement programming module 2398, a memory module 2399 containing software execution procedure program files, an execution procedure module 2400 that generates execution commands based on recorded sensor data, a module 2402 containing standardized painting parameters, an output module 2404, and an (output) quality checking module 2403, all overseen by a software maintenance module 2406.
[00532] One embodiment of the art platform standardization is defined as follows. First, standardized position and orientation (xyz) of any kind of art tools (brushes, paints, canvas, etc.) in the art platform. Second, standardized operation volume dimensions and architecture in each art platform. Third, standardized art tools set in each art platform. Fourth, standardized robotic arms and hands with a library of manipulations in each art platform. Fifth, standardized three-dimensional vision devices for creating dynamic three-dimensional vision data for painting recording and execution tracking and quality check function in each art platform. Sixth, standardized type/producer/mark/ of all using paints during particular painting execution. Seventh, standardized type/producer/mark/size of canvas during particular painting execution.
[00533] One main purpose to have Standardized Art Platform is to achieve the same result of the painting process (i.e., the same painting) executing by the original painter and afterward duplicated by robotic Art Platform. Several main points to emphasize in using the standardized Art Platform: (1) have the same timeline (same sequence of manipulations, same initial and ending time of each manipulation, same speed of moving object between manipulations) of Painter and automatic robotic execution; and (2) there are quality checks (3D vision, sensors) to avoid any fail result after each manipulation during the painting process. Therefore, the risk of not having the same result is reduced if the painting was done at the standardized art platform. If a non-standardized art platform is used, this will increase the risk of not having the same result (i.e. not the same painting) because adjustment algorithms may be required when the painting is not executed at not the same volume, with the same art tools, with the same paint or with the same canvas in the painter studio as in the robotic art platform.
[00534] FIG. 96A depicts the studio painting system and program commercialization process 2410. A first step 2451 is for the human painting artist to make decisions pertaining to the artwork to be created in the studio robotic painting system, which includes deciding on such topics as the subject, composition, media, tools and equipment, etc. The artist inputs all this data to the robotic painting engine in step 2452, after which in step 2453 the artist sets up the standardized workstation, tools and equipment and accessories and materials, as well as the motion and visual input devices as required and spelled out in the set-up procedure. The artist sets the starting point of the process and turns on the studio painting system in step 2454, after which the artist then begins step 2455 of actually painting. In step 2456, the studio painting system records the motions and video of the artist's movements in real time and in a known xyz coordinate frame during the entire painting process. The data collected in the painting studio is then stored in step 2457, allowing the robotic painting engine to generate a simulation program 2458 based on the stored movement and media data. At step 2459, the robotic painting program file or application (app) of the produced painting is developed and integrated for use by different operating systems and mobile systems and submitted to App-stores or other marketplace locations for sale as a single-use purchase or on a subscription basis.
[00535] FIG. 96B depicts the logical execution flow 2460 for the robotic painting engine. As a first step, the user selects a painting title in step 2461, with the input being received by the robotic painting engine in step 2462. The robotic painting engine uploads the painting execution program files in step 2463 into the onboard memory, and then proceeds to step 2464, where it calculates the necessary tools and accessories. A checking step 2465 provides the answers as to whether there is a shortage of tools or accessories and materials; should there be a shortage, the system sends an alert 2466 or a suggestion to the user for an ordering list or an alternate painting. In the case of no shortage, the engine confirms the selection in step 2467, allowing the user to proceed to step 2468, comprised of setting up the standardized workstation, motion and visual input devices using the step-by-step instruction contained within the painting execution program files. Once completed, the robotic painting engine performs a check-up step 2469 to verify the proper setup; should it detect an error through step 2470, the system engine will send an error alert 2472 to the user and prompt the user to re-check the setup and correct any detected deficiencies. If the check passes with no errors detected, the setup will be confirmed by the engine in step 2471, allowing it to prompt the user in step 2473 to set the starting point and power on the replication and visual feedback and control systems. In step 2474, the robotic arm(s) will execute the steps specified in the painting execution program file, including movements, usage of tools and equipment at an identical pace as specified by the painting program execution files. A visual feedback step 2475 monitors the execution of the painting replication process against the controlled parameter data that define a successful execution of the painting process and its outcomes. The robotic painting engine further takes the step 2476 of simulation model verification to increase the fidelity of the replication process, with the goal of the entire replication process to reach an identical final state as captured and saved by the studio painting system. Once the painting is completed, a notification 2477 is sent to the user, including drying and curing time for the applied materials (paint, paste, etc.)
[00536] FIG. 97A depicts a robotic human musical-instrument skill-replication engine 2104. In the robotic human musical-instrument skill-replication engine 2104, there are multiple additional modules all interconnected to each other over a common inter-module communication bus 2478. The replication engine contains further modules, including, but not limited to, an audible (digital) audio input module 2480, a human's musical instrument playing movement recording module 2482, an ancillary/additional sensory data recording module 2484, a musical instrument playing movement programming module 12486, a memory module 2488 containing software execution procedure program files, an execution procedure module 2490 that generates execution commands based on recorded sensor data, a module 2492 containing standardized musical instrument playing parameters (e.g. pace, pressure, angles, etc.), an output module 2494, and an (output) quality checking module 2496, all overseen by a software maintenance module 2498.
[00537] FIG. 97B depicts the process carried out and the logical flow for a musician replication engine 2104. To start, in step 2501 a user selects a music title and/or composer, and is then queried in step 2502 whether the selection should be made by the robotic engine or through interaction with the human. In the case, the user selects the robot engine to select the title/composer in step 2503, the engine 2104 is configured to use its own interpretation of creativity in step 2512, to offer the human user to provide input to the selection process in step 2504. Should the human decline providing input, the robotic musician engine 2104 is configured to use settings such as manual inputs to tonality, pitch and instrumentation as well as melodic variation in step 2519, to gather the necessary input in step 2520 to generate and upload selected instrument playing execution program files in step 2521, allowing the user to select the preferred one in step 2523, after the robotic musician engine has confirmed the selection in step 2522. The choice made by the human is then stored as a personal choice in the personal profile database in step 2524. Should the human decide to provide input to the query in step 2513, the user will be able in step 2513 to provide additional emotional input to the selection process (facial expressions, photo, news article, etc.). The input from step 2514 is received by the robotic musician engine in step 2515, allowing it to proceed to step 2516, where the engine carries out a sentiment analysis related to all available input data and uploads a music selection based on the mood and style appropriate to the emotional input data from the human. Upon confirmation of selection for the uploaded music selection in step 2517 by the robotic musician engine, the user may select the 'start' button to play the program file for the selection in step 2518.
[00538] In the case where the human wants to be intimately involved in the selection of the title/composer, the system provides a list of performers for the selected title to the human on a display in step 2503. In step 2504 the user selects the desired performer, a choice input that the system receives in step 2505. In step 2506, the robotic musician engine generates and uploads the instrument playing execution program files, and proceeds in step 2507 to compare potential limitations between a human and a robotic musician's playing performance on a particular instrument, thereby allowing it to calculate a potential performance gap. A checking step 2508 decides whether there exists a gap. Should there be a gap, the system will suggest other selections based on the user's preference profile in step 2509. Should there be no performance gap, the robotic musician engine will confirm the selection in step 2510 and allow the user to proceed to step 2511, where the user may select the 'start' button to play the program file for the selection.
[00539] FIG. 98 depicts a robotic human-nursing-care skill-replication engine 2106. In the robotic human-nursing-care skill-replication engine replication engine 2106, there are multiple additional modules all interconnected to each other over a common inter-module communication bus 2521. The replication engine 2106 contains further modules, including, but not limited to, an input module 2520, a nursing care movement recording module 2522, an ancillary/additional sensory data recording module 2524, a nursing care movement programming module 2526, a memory module 2528 containing software execution procedure program files, an execution procedure module 2530 that generates execution commands based on recorded sensor data, a module 2532 containing standardized nursing care parameters, an output module 2534, and an (output) quality checking module 2536, all overseen by a software maintenance module 2538. [00540] FIG. 99A depicts a robotic human nursing care system process 2550. A first step 2551 involves a user (care receiver or family/friends) creating an account for the care receiver, providing personal data (name, age, ID, etc.). A biometric data collection step 2552 involves the collection of personal data, including facial images, fingerprints, voice samples, etc. The user then enters contact information for emergency contact in step 2553. The robotic engine receives all this input data to build up a user account and profile in step 2554. Should the user not be under a remote health monitoring program as determined in step 2555, the robot engine sends an account creation confirmation message and a self-downloading manual file/app to the user's tablet, TV, smartphone or other device for future touch-screen or voice-based command interface purposes, as part of step 2561. Should the user be part of a remote health-monitoring program, the robot engine will request in step 2556 permission to access medical records. As part of step 2557 the robotic engine connects with the user's hospital and physician's offices, laboratories and medical insurance databases to receive the medical history, prescription, treatment, and appointments data for the user and generates a medical care execution program for storage in a file particular to that user. As a next step 2558, the robotic engine connects with any and all of the user's wearable medical devices (such as blood pressure monitors, pulse and blood-oxygen sensors), or even electronically controllable drug dispensing system (whether oral or by injection) to allow for continuous monitoring. As a follow-on step, the robotic engine receives medical data file and sensory inputs allowing it to generate one or more medical care execution program files for the user's account in step 2559. The next step 2560 involves the creation of a secure cloud storage data space for the user's information, daily activities, associated parameters and any past or future medical events or appointments. As before in step 2561, the robot engine sends an account creation confirmation message and a self-downloading manual file/app to the user's tablet, TV, smartphone or other device for future touch-screen or voice-based command interface purposes.
[00541] FIG. 99B depicts a continuation of the robotic human nursing care system process 2250 first started with FIG. 99A, but which is now related to a physically present robot in the user's environment. As a first step 2562, the user turns on the robot in a default configuration and location (e.g. charging station). In task 2563, the robot receives a user's voice or touch-screen-based command to execute one specific or groups of commands or actions. In step 2564, the robot carries out particular tasks and activities based on engagement with the user using voice and facial recognition commands and cues, responses or behaviors of the user, basing its decisions on such factors as task-urgency and task-priority based on knowledge of the particular or overall situation. In task 2565 the robot carries out typical fetching, grasping and transportation of one or more items, completing the tasks using object recognition and environmental sensing, localization and mapping algorithms to optimize movements along obstacle-free paths, possibly even to serve as an avatar to provide audio/video teleconferencing ability for the user or interface with any controllable home appliance. At step 2568, the robot is continually monitoring the user's medical condition based on sensory input and the user's profile data, and monitors for possible symptoms of potential medically dangerous conditions, with the ability to inform first responders or family members about any potential situations requiring their immediate attention at step 2570. The robot continually checks in step 2566 for any open or remaining task and always remains ready to react to any user input from step 2522.
[00542] In general terms, there may be considered a method of motion capture and analysis for a robotics system, comprising sensing a sequence of observations of a person's movements by a plurality of robotic sensors as the person prepares a product using working equipment; detecting in the sequence of observations minimanipulations corresponding to a sequence of movements carried out in each stage of preparing the product; transforming the sensed sequence of observations into computer readable instructions for controlling a robotic apparatus capable of performing the sequences of minimanipulations; storing at least the sequence of instructions for minimanipulations to electronic media for the product. This may be repeated for multiple products. The sequence of minimanipulations for the product is preferably stored as an electronic record. The minimanipulations may be abstraction parts of a multi-stage process, such as cutting an object, heating an object (in an oven or on a stove with oil or water), or similar. Then, the method may further comprise transmitting the electronic record for the product to a robotic apparatus capable of replicating the sequence of stored minimanipulations, corresponding to the original actions of the person. Moreover, the method may further comprise executing the sequence of instructions for minimanipulations for the product by the robotic apparatus 75, thereby obtaining substantially the same result as the original product prepared by the person.
[00543] In another general aspect, there may be considered a method of operating a robotics apparatus, comprising providing a sequence of pre-programmed instructions for standard minimanipulations, wherein each minimanipulation produces at least one identifiable result in a stage of preparing a product; sensing a sequence of observations corresponding to a person's movements by a plurality of robotic sensors as the person prepares the product using equipment; detecting standard minimanipulations in the sequence of observations, wherein a minimanipulation corresponds to one or more observations, and the sequence of minimanipulations corresponds to the preparation of the product; transforming the sequence of observations into robotic instructions based on software implemented methods for recognizing sequences of pre-programmed standard minimanipulations based on the sensed sequence of person motions, the minimanipulations each comprising a sequence of robotic instructions and the robotic instructions including dynamic sensing operations and robotic action operations; storing the sequence of minimanipulations and their corresponding robotic instructions in electronic media. Preferably, the sequence of instructions and corresponding minimanipulations for the product are stored as an electronic record for preparing the product. This may be repeated for multiple products. The method may further include transmitting the sequence of instructions (preferably in the form of the electronic record) to a robotics apparatus capable of replicating and executing the sequence of robotic instructions. The method may further comprise executing the robotic instructions for the product by the robotics apparatus, thereby obtaining substantially the same result as the original product prepared by the human. Where the method is repeated for multiple products, the method may additionally comprise providing a library of electronic descriptions of one or more products, including the name of the product, ingredients of the product and the method (such as a recipe) for making the product from ingredients.
[00544] Another generalized aspect provides a method of operating a robotics apparatus comprising receiving an instruction set for a making a product comprising of a series of indications of minimanipulations corresponding to original actions of a person, each indication comprising a sequence of robotic instructions and the robotic instructions including dynamic sensing operations and robotic action operations; providing the instruction set to a robotic apparatus capable of replicating the sequence of minimanipulations; executing the sequence of instructions for minimanipulations for the product by the robotic apparatus, thereby obtaining substantially the same result as the original product prepared by the person.
[00545] A further generalized method of operating a robotic apparatus may be considered in a different aspect, comprising executing a robotic instructions script for duplicating a recipe having a plurality of product preparation movements; determining if each preparation movement is identified as a standard grabbing action of a standard tool or a standard object, a standard hand-manipulation action or object, or a non-standard object; and for each preparation movement, one or more of: instructing the robotic cooking device to access a first database library if the preparation movement involves a standard grabbing action of a standard object; instructing the robotic cooking device to access a second database library if the food preparation movement involves a standard hand-manipulation action or object; and instructing the robotic cooking device to create a three-dimensional model of the non-standard object if the food preparation movement involves a non-standard object. The determining and/or instructing steps may be particularly implemented at or by a computer system. The computing system may have a processor and memory.
[00546] Another aspect may be found in a method for product preparation by robotic apparatus 75, comprising replicating a recipe by preparing a product (such as a food dish) via the robotic apparatus 75, the recipe decomposed into one or more preparation stages, each preparation stage decomposed into a sequence of minimanipulations and active primitives, each minimanipulation decomposed into a sequence of action primitives. Preferably, each mini manipulation has been (successfully) tested to produce an optimal result for that mini manipulation in view of any variations in positions, orientations, shapes of an applicable object, and one or more applicable ingredients.
[00547] A further method aspect may be considered in a method for recipe script generation, comprising receiving filtered raw data from sensors in the surroundings of a standardized working environment module, such as a kitchen environment; generating a sequence of script data from the filtered raw data; and transforming the sequence of script data into machine-readable and machine- executable commands for preparing a product, the machine-readable and machine-executable commands including commands for controlling a pair of robotic arms and hands to perform a function. The function may be from the group comprising one or more cooking stages, one or more minimanipulations, and one or more action primitives. A recipe script generation system comprising hardware and/or software features configured to operate in accordance with this method may also be considered.
[00548] In any of these aspects, the following may be considered. The preparation of the product normally uses ingredients. Executing the instructions typically includes sensing properties of the ingredients used in preparing the product. The product may be a food dish in accordance with a (food) recipe (which may be held in an electronic description) and the person may be a chef. The working equipment may comprise kitchen equipment. These methods may be used in combination with any one or more of the other features described herein. One, more than one or all of the features of the aspects may be combined, so a feature from one aspect may be combined with another aspect for example. Each aspect may be computer-implemented and there may be provided a computer program configured to perform each method when operated by a computer or processor. Each computer program may be stored on a computer-readable medium. Additionally or alternatively, the programs may be partially or fully hardware-implemented. The aspects may be combined. There may also be provided a robotics system configured to operate in accordance with the method described in respect of any of these aspects.
[00549] In another aspect, there may be provided a robotics system, comprising: a multi-modal sensing system capable of observing human motions and generating human motions data in a first instrumented environment; and a processor (which may be a computer), communicatively coupled to the multi-modal sensing system, for recording the human motions data received from the multi-modal sensing system and processing the human motions data to extract motion primitives, preferably such that the motion primitives define operations of a robotics system. The motion primitives may be minimanipulations, as described herein (for example in the immediately preceding paragraphs) and may have a standard format. The motion primitive may define specific types of action and parameters of the type of action, for example a pulling action with a defined starting point, end point, force and grip type. Optionally, there may be further provided a robotics apparatus, communicatively coupled to the processor and/or multi-modal sensing system. The robotics apparatus may be capable of using the motion primitives and/or the human motions data to replicate the observed human motions in a second instrumented environment.
[00550] In a further aspect, there may provided a robotics system, comprising: a processor (which may be a computer), for receiving motion primitives defining operations of a robotics system, the motion primitives being based on human motions data captured from human motions; and a robotics system, communicatively coupled to the processor, capable of using the motion primitives to replicate human motions in an instrumented environment. It will be understood that these aspects may be further combined.
[00551] A further aspect may be found in a robotics system comprising: first and second robotic arms; first and second robotic hands, each hand having a wrist coupled to a respective arm, each hand having a palm and multiple articulated fingers, each articulated finger on the respective hand having at least one sensor; and first and second gloves, each glove covering the respective hand having a plurality of embedded sensors. Preferably, the robotics system is a robotic kitchen system.
[00552] There may further be provided, in a different but related aspect, a motion capture system, comprising: a standardized working environment module, preferably a kitchen; plurality of multi-modal sensors having a first type of sensors configured to be physically coupled to a human and a second type of sensors configured to be spaced away from the human. One or more of the following may be the case: the first type of sensors may be for measuring the posture of human appendages and sensing motion data of the human appendages; the second type of sensors may be for determining a spatial registration of the three-dimensional configurations of one or more of the environment, objects, movements, and locations of human appendages; the second type of sensors may be configured to sense activity data; the standardized working environment may have connectors to interface with the second type of sensors; the first type of sensors and the second type of sensors measure motion data and activity data, and send both the motion data and the activity data to a computer for storage and processing for product (such as food) preparation.
[00553] An aspect may additionally or alternatively be considered in a robotic hand coated with a sensing gloves, comprising: five fingers; and a palm connected to the five fingers, the palm having internal joints and a deformable surface material in three regions; a first deformable region disposed on a radial side of the palm and near the base of the thumb; a second deformable region disposed on a ulnar side of the palm, and spaced apart from the radial side; and a third deformable region disposed on the palm and extend across the base of the fingers. Preferably, the combination of the first deformable region, the second deformable region, the third deformable region, and the internal joints collectively operate to perform a mini manipulation, particularly for food preparation.
[00554] In respect of any of the above system, device or apparatus aspects, there may further be provided method aspects comprising steps to carry out the functionality of the system. Additionally or alternatively, optional features may be found based on any one or more of the features described herein with respect to other aspects.
[00555] FIG. 100 is a block diagram illustrating the general applicability (or universal) of robotic human-skill replication system 2700 with a creator's recording system 2710 and a commercial robotic system 2720. The human-skill replication system 2700 may be used to capture the movements or manipulations of a subject expert or creator 2711. Creator 2711 may be an expert in his/her respective field and may be a professional or someone who has gained the necessary skills to have refined specific tasks, such as cooking, painting, medical diagnostics, or playing a musical instrument. The creator's recording system 2710 comprises a computer 2712 with sensing inputs, e.g. motion sensing inputs, a memory 2713 for storing replication files and a subject/skill library 2714. Creator's recording system 2710 may be a specialized computer or may be a general purpose computer with the ability to record and capture the creator 2711 movements and analyze and refine those movements down into steps that may be processed on computer 2712 and stored in memory 2713. The sensors may be any type of visual, IR, thermal, proximity, temperature, pressure, or any other type of sensor capable of gathering information to refine and perfect the minimanipulations required by the robotic system to perform the task. Memory 2713 may be any type of remote or local memory type storage and may be stored on any type of memory system including magnetic, optical, or any other known electronic storage system. Memory 2713 maybe a public or private cloud based system and may be provided locally or by a third party. Subject/skill library 2714 may be a compilation or collection of previously recorded and captured minimanipulations and may be categorized or arranged in any logical or relational order, such as by task, by robotic components, or by skill.
[00556] Commercial robotic system 2720 comprises a user 2721, a computer 2722 with a robotic execution engine and a minimanipulation library 2723. The computer 2722 comprises a general or special purpose computer and may be any compilation of processors and or other standard computing devices. Computer 2722 comprises a robotic execution engine for operating robotic elements such as arms/hands or a complete humanoid robot to recreate the movements captured by the recording system. The Computer 2722 may also operate standardized objects (e.g. tools and equipment) of the creator's 2711 according to the program files or app's captured during the recording process. Computer 2722 may also control and capture 3-D modeling feedback for simulation model calibration and real time adjustments. Minimanipulation library 2723 stores the captured minimanipulations that have been downloaded from the creator's recording system 2710 to the commercial robotic system 2720 via communications link 2701. Minimanipulation library 2723 may store the minimanipulations locally or remotely and may store them in a predetermined or relational basis. Communications link 2701 conveys program files or app's for the (subject) human skill to the commercial robotic system 2720 on a purchase, download, or subscription basis. In operation robotic human-skill replication system 2700 allows a creator 2711 to perform a task or series of tasks which are captured on computer 2712 and stored in memory 2713 creating minimanipulation files or libraries. The minimanipulation files may then be conveyed to the commercial robotic system 2720 via communications link 2701 and executed on computer 2722 causing a set of robotic appendage of hands and arms or a humanoid robot to duplicate the movements of the creator 2711. In this manner, the movements of the creator 2711 are replicated by the robot to complete the required task.
[00557] FIG. 101 is a software system diagram illustrating the robotic human-skill replication engine 2800 with various modules. Robotic human-skill replication engine 2800 may comprise an input module 2801, a creator's movement recording module 2802, a creator's movement programing module 2803, a sensor data recording module 2804, a quality check module 2805, a memory module 2806 for storing software execution procedure program files, a skill execution procedure module 2807, which may be based on the recorded sensor data, a standard skill movement and object parameter capture module 2808, a minimanipulation movement and object parameter module 2809, a maintenance module 2810 and an output module 2811. Input module 2801 may include any standard inputting device, such as a keyboard, mouse, or other inputting device and may be used for inputting information into robotic human-skill replication engine 2800. Creator movement recording module 2802 records and captures all the movements, and actions of the creator 2711 when robotic human-skill replication engine 2800 is recording the movements or minimanipulations of the creator 2711. The recording module 2802 may record input in any known format and may parse the creator's movements in small incremental movements to make up a primary movement. Creator movement recording module 2802 may comprise hardware or software and may comprise any number or combination of logic circuits. The creator's movement programing module 2803 allows the creator 2711 to program the movements rather then allow the system to capture and transcribe the movements. Creator's movement programing module 2803 may allow for input through both input instructions as well as captured parameters obtained by observing the creator 2711. Creator's movement programing module 2803 may comprise hardware or software and may be implemented utilizing any number or combination of logic circuits. Sensor Data Recording Module 2804 is used to record sensor input data captured during the recording process. Sensor Data Recording Module 2804 may comprise hardware or software and may be implemented utilizing any number or combination of logic circuits. Sensor Data Recording Module 2804 may be utilized when a creator 2711 is performing a task that is being monitored by a series of sensors such as motion, IR, auditory or the like. Sensor Data Recording Module 2804 records all the data from the sensors to be used to create a mini-manipulate of the task being performed. Quality Check Module 2805 may be used to monitor the incoming sensor data, the health of the overall replication engine, the sensors or any other component or module of the system. Quality Check Module 2805 may comprise hardware or software and may be implemented utilizing any number or combination of logic circuits. Memory Module 2806 may be any type of memory element and may be used to store Software Execution Procedure Program Files. It may comprise local or remote memory and may employ short term, permanent or temporary memory storage. Memory module 2806 may utilize any form of magnetic, optic or mechanical memory. Skill Execution Procedure Module 2807 is used to implement the specific skill based on the recorded sensor data. Skill Execution Procedure Module 2807 may utilize the recorded sensor data to execute a series of steps or minimanipulations to complete a task or a portion of a task one such a task has been captured by the robotic replication engine. Skill Execution Procedure Module 2807 may comprise hardware or software and may be implemented utilizing any number or combination of logic circuits.
[00558] Standard skill movement and object Parameters module 2802 may be a modules implemented in software or hardware and is intended to define standard movements of objects and or basic skills. It may comprise subject parameters, which provide the robotic replication engine with information about standard objects that may need to be utilized during a robotic procedure. It may also contain instructions and or information related to standard skill movements, which are not unique to any one minimanipulation. Maintenance module 2810 may be any routine or hardware that is used to monitor and perform routine maintenance on the system and the robotic replication engine. Maintenance module 2810 may allow for controlling, updating, monitoring, and troubleshooting any other module or system coupled to the robotic human-skill replication engine. Maintenance module 2810 may comprise hardware or software and may be implemented utilizing any number or combination of logic circuits. Output module 2811 allows for communications from the robotic human- skill replication engine 2800 to any other system component or module. Output module 2811 may be used to export, or convey the captured minimanipulations to a commercial robotic system 2720 or may be used to convey the information into storage. Output module 2811 may comprise hardware or software and may be implemented utilizing any number or combination of logic circuits. Bus 2812 couples all the modules within the robotic human-skill replication engine and may be a parallel bus, serial bus, synchronous or asynchronous. It may allow for communications in any form using serial data, packetized data, or any other known methods of data communication.
[00559] Minimanipulation movement and object parameter module 2809 may be used to store and/or categorize the captured minimanipulations and creator's movements. It may be coupled to the replication engine as well as the robotic system under control of the user.
[00560] FIG. 102 is a block diagram illustrating one embodiment of the robotic human-skill replication system 2700. The robotic human-skill replication system 2700 comprises the computer 2712 (or the computer 2722), motion sensing devices 2825, standardized objects 2826, non standard objects 2827.
[00561] Computer 2712 comprises robotic human-skill replication engine 2800, movement control module 2820, memory 2821, skills movement emulator 2822, extended simulation validation and calibration module 2823 and standard object algorithms 2824. As described with respect to FIG. 102, robotic human-skill replication engine 2800 comprises several modules, which enable the capture of creator 2711 movements to create and capture minimanipulations during the execution of a task. The captured minimanipulations are converted from sensor input data to robotic control library data that may be used to complete a task or may be combined in series or parallel with other minimanipulations to create the necessary inputs for the robotic arms/hands or humanoid robot 2830 to complete a task or a portion of a task.
[00562] Robotic human-skill replication engine 2800 is coupled to movement control module 2820, which may be used to control or configure the movement of various robotic components based on visual, auditory, tactile or other feedback obtained from the robotic components. Memory 2821 may be coupled to computer 2712 and comprises the necessary memory components for storing skill execution program files. A skill execution program file contains the necessary instructions for computer 2712 to execute a series of instructions to cause the robotic components to complete a task or series of tasks. Skill movement emulator 2822 is coupled to the robotic human-skill replication engine 2800 and may be used to emulate creator skills without actual sensor input. Skill movement emulator 2822 provides alternate input to robotic human-skill replication engine 2800 to allow for the creation of a skill execution program without the use of a creator 2711 providing sensor input. Extended simulation validation and calibration module 2823 may be coupled to robotic human-skill replication engine 2800 and provides for extended creator input and provides for real time adjustments to the robotic movements based on 3-D modeling and real time feedback. Computer 2712 comprises standard object algorithms 2824, which are used to control the robotic hands 72/the robotic arms 70 or humanoid robot 2830 to complete tasks using standard objects. Standard objects may include standard tools or utensils or standard equipment, such as a stove or EKG machine. The algorithms in 2824 are precompiled and do not require individual training using robotic human-skills replication.
[00563] Computer 2712 is coupled to one or more motion sensing devices 2825. Motion sensing device 2825 may be visual motion sensors, IR motion sensors, tracking sensors, laser monitored sensors, or any other input or recording device that allows computer 2712 to monitor the position of the tracked device in 3-D space. Motion sensing devices 2825 may comprise a single sensor or a series of sensors that include single point sensors, paired transmitters and receivers, paired markers and sensors or any other type of spatial sensor. Robotic human-skill replication system 2700 may comprise standardized objects 2826 Standardized objects 2826 is any standard object found in a standard orientation and position within the robotic human-skill replication system 2700. These may include standardized tools or tools with standardized handles or grips 2826-a, standard equipment 2826-b, or a standardized space 2826-c. Standardized tools 2826-a may be those depicted in FIGS. 12A-C and 152-162S, or may be any standard tool, such as a knife, a pot, a spatula, a scalpel, a thermometer, a violin bow, or any other equipment that may be utilized within the specific environment. Standard equipment 2826-b may be any standard kitchen equipment, such as a stove, broiler, microwave, mixer, etc. or may be any standard medical equipment, such as a pulse-ox meter, etc. the space itself, 2826-c may be standardized such as a kitchen module or a trauma module or recovery module or piano module. By utilizing these standard tools, equipment and spaces, the robotic hands/arms or humanoid robots may more quickly adjust and learn how to perform their desired function within the standardized space.
[00564] Also within the robotic human-skill replication system 2700 may be non standard objects 2827. Non standard objects may be for example, cooking ingredients such as meats and vegetables. These non standard sized, shaped and proportioned objects may be located in standard positions and orientations, such as within drawers or bins but the items themselves may vary from item to item.
[00565] Visual, audio, and tactile input devices 2829 may be coupled to computer 2712 as [part of the robotic human-skill replication system 2700. Visual, audio, and tactile input devices 2829 may be cameras, lasers, 3-D steroptics, tactile sensors, mass detectors, or any other sensor or input device that allows computer 21712 to determine an object type and position within 3-D space. It may also allow for the detection of the surface of an object and detect objects properties based on touch sound , density or weight.
[00566] Robotic arms/hands or humanoid robot 2830 may be directly coupled to computer 2712 or may be connected over a wired or wireless network and may communicate with robotic human-skill replication engine 2800. Robotic arms/hands or humanoid robot 2830 is capable of manipulating and replicating any of the movements performed by creator 2711 or any of the algorithms for using a standard object.
[00567] FIG. 103 is a block diagram illustrating a humanoid 2840 with controlling points for skill execution or replication process with standardized operating tools, standardized positions and orientations, and standardized equipment. As seen in FIG. 104, the humanoid 2840 is positioned within a sensor field 2841 as part of the Robotic Human-skill replication system 2700. The humanoid 2840 may be wearing a network of control points or sensors points to enable capture of the movements or minimanipulations made during the execution of a task. Also within the Robotic Human-skill replication system 2700 may be standard tools, 2843, standard equipment 2845 and non standard objects 2842 all arranged in a standard initial position and orientation 2844. As the skills are executed, each step in the skill is recorded within the sensor field 2841. Starting from an initial position humanoid 2840 may execute step 1-step n, all of which is recorded to create a repeatable result that may be implemented by a pair of robotic arms or a humanoid robot. By recording the human creator's movements within the sensor filed 2841, the information may be converted into a series of individual steps 1-n or as a sequence of events to complete a task. Because all the standard and non standard objects are located and oriented in a standard initial position, the robotic component replicating the human movements is able to accurately and consistently perform the recorded task.
[00568] FIG. 104 is a block diagram illustrating one embodiment of a conversion algorithm module 2880 between a human or creator's movements and the robotic replication movements. A movement replication data module 2884 converts the captured data from the human's movements in the recording suite 2874 into a machine-readable and machine-executable language 2886 for instructing the robotic arms and the robotic hands to replicate a skill performed by the human's movement in the robotic robot humanoid replication environment 2878. In the recording suite 2874, the computer 2812 captures and records the human's movements based on the sensors on a glove that the human wears, represented by a plurality of sensors S0, Si, S2, S3, S4, S5, S6 ... Sn in the vertical columns, and the time increments t0, ta, t2, t3, t4, t5, t6... tend in the horizontal rows, in a table 2888. At time t0, the computer 2812 records the xyz coordinate positions from the sensor data received from the plurality of sensors SO, SI, S2, S3, S4, S5, S6 ... Sn. At time t1( the computer 2812 records the xyz coordinate positions from the sensor data received from the plurality of sensors S0, Si, S2, S3, S4, S5, S6 ... Sn. At time t2, the computer 2812 records the xyz coordinate positions from the sensor data received from the plurality of sensors S0, Si, S2, S3, S4, S5, S6 ... Sn. This process continues until the entire skill is completed at time tend- The duration for each time units to ti, t2, t3, t , t5, t6... tend is the same. As a result of the captured and recorded sensor data, the table 2888 shows any movements from the sensors S0, Si, S2, S3, S4, S5, S6 ... Sn in the glove in xyz coordinates, which would indicate the differentials between the xyz coordinate positions for one specific time relative to the xyz coordinate positions for the next specific time. Effectively, the table 2888 records how the human's movements change over the entire skill from the start time, t0, to the end time, tend- The illustration in this embodiment can be extended to multiple sensors, which the human wears to capture the movements while performing the skill. In the standardized environment 2878, the robotic arms and the robotic hands replicate the recorded skill from the recording suite 2874, which is then converted to robotic instructions, where the robotic arms and the robotic hands replicate the skill of the human according to the timeline 2894. The robotic arms and hands carry out the skill with the same xyz coordinate positions, at the same speed, with the same time increments from the start time, t0, to the end time, tend, as shown in the timeline 2894.
[00569] In some embodiments a human performs the same skill multiple times, yielding values of the sensor reading, and parameters in the corresponding robotic instructions that vary somewhat from one time to the next. The set of sensor readings for each sensor across multiple repetitions of the skill provides a distribution with a mean, standard deviation and minimum and maximum values. The corresponding variations on the robotic instructions (also called the effector parameters) across multiple executions of the same skill by the human also defines distributions with mean, standard deviation, minimum and maximum values. These distributions may be used to determine the fidelity (or accuracy) of subsequent robotic skills.
[00570] In one embodiment the estimated average accuracy of a robotic skill operation is given by:
Figure imgf000151_0001
[00571] Where C represents the set of human parameters (1st through nth ) and R represents the set of the robotic apparatus 75 parameters (correspondingly (1st through n h ). The numerator in the sum represents the difference between robotic and human parameters (i.e. the error) and the denominator normalizes for the maximal difference). The sum gives the total normalized cumulative error (i.e.
IQ-Pil
∑n = 1, ... n ) , and multiplying by 1/n gives the average error. The complement of the
max(|ci>t-piit'
average error corresponds to the average accuracy.
[00572] [00215] Another version of the accuracy calculation weighs the parameters for importance, where each coefficient (each ai) represents the importance of the ith parameter, the normalized cumulative error is∑ n and the estimated average accuracy is given by:
max(|c;,t-p;,t
Figure imgf000151_0002
[00573] FIG. 105 is a block diagram illustrating the creator movement recording and humanoid replication based on the captured sensory data from sensors aligned on the creator. In the In the creator movement recording suite 3000, the creator may wear various body sensors Dl-Dn with sensors for capturing the skill, where sensor data 3001 are recorded in a table 3002. In this example, the creator is preforming a task with a tool. These action primitives by the creator, as recorded by the sensors and may constitute a mini-manipulation 3002 that take place over time slots 1, 2, 3 and 4. The skill Movement replication data module 2884 is configured to convert the recorded skills file from the creator recording suite 3000 to robotic instructions for operating robotic components such as arms and the robotic hands in the robotic human-skill execution portion 1063 according to a robotic software instructions 3004. The robotic components perform the skill with control signals 3006 for the mini-manipulation, as pre-defined in the mini-manipulation library 116 from a minimanipulation library database 3009, of performing the skill with a tool. The robotic components operate with the same xyz coordinates 3005 and with possible real-time adjustment to the skill by creating a temporary three-dimensional model 3007 of the skill from a real-time adjustment device.
[00574] In order to operate a mechanical robotic mechanism such as the ones described in the embodiments of this disclosure, a skilled artisan realizes that many mechanical and control problems need to be addressed, and the literature in robotics describes methods to do just that. The establishment of static and/or dynamic stability in a robotics system is an important consideration. Especially for robotic manipulation, dynamic stability is a strongly desired property, in order to prevent accidental breakage or movements beyond those desired or programmed.
[00575] FIG. 106 depicts the overall robotic control platform 3010 for a general-purpose humanoid robot at as a high level description of the functionality of the present disclosure. An universal communication bus 3002 serves an electronic conduit for data, including reading from internal and external sensors 3014, variables and their current values 3016 pertinent to the current state of the robot, such as tolerances in its movements, exact location of its hands, etc. and environment information 3018 such as where the robot is or where are the objects that it may need to manipulation. These input sources make the humanoid robot situationally aware and thus able to carry out its tasks, from direct low level actuator commands 3020 to high level robotic end-to-end task plans from the robotic planner 3022 that can reference a large electronic library of component minimanipulations 3024, which are then interpreted to determine whether their preconditions permit application and converted to machine-executable code from a robotic interpreter module 3026 and then sent as the actual command-and-sensing sequences to the robotic execution module 3028.
[00576] In addition to the robotic planning, sensing and acting, the robotic control platform can also communicate with humans via icons, language, gestures, etc. via the robot-human interfaces module 3030, and can learn new minimanipulations by observing humans perform building-block tasks corresponding to the minimanipulations and generalizing multiple observations into minimanipulations, i.e., reliable repeatable sensing-action sequences with preconditions and postconditions by a minimanipulation learning module 3032.
[00577] FIG. 107 is a block diagram illustrating a computer architecture 3050 (or a schematic) for generation, transfer, implementation and usage of minimanipulation libraries as part of a humanoid application-task replication process. The present disclosure relates to a combination of software systems, which include many software engines and datasets and libraries, which when combined with libraries and controller systems, results in an approach to abstracting and recombining computer-based task-execution descriptions to enable a robotic humanoid system to replicate human tasks as well as self-assemble robotic execution sequences to accomplish any required task sequence. Particular elements of the present disclosure relate to a Minimanipulation (MM) Generator 3051, which creates Minimanipulation libraries (MMLs) that are accessible by the humanoid controller 3056 in order to create high-level task-execution command sequences that are executed by a low-level controller residing on/with the humanoid robot itself.
[00578] The computer architecture 3050 for executing minimanipulations comprises a combination of disclosure of controller algorithms and their associated controller-gain values as well as specified time-profiles for position/velocity and force/torque for any given motion/actuation unit, as well as the low-level (actuator) controller(s) (represented by both hardware and software elements) that implement these control algorithms and use sensory feedback to ensure the fidelity of the prescribed motion/interaction profiles contained within the respective datasets. These are also described in further detail below and so designated with appropriate color-code in the associated FIG. 107.
[00579] The MML generator 3051 is a software system comprising multiple software engines GG2 that create both minimanipulation (MM) data sets GG3 which are in turn used to also become part of one or more MML Data bases GG4.
[00580] The MML Generator 3051 contains the aforementioned software engines 3052, which utilize sensory and spatial data and higher-level reasoning software modules to generator parameter-sets that describe the respective manipulation tasks, thereby allowing the system to build a complete MM data set 3053 at multiple levels. A hierarchical MM Library (MML) builder is based on software modules that allow the system to decompose the complete task action set in to a sequence of serial and parallel motion-primitives that are categorized from low- to high-level in terms of complexity and abstraction. The hierarchical breakdown is then used by a MML database builder to build a complete MML database 3054.
[00581] The previously mentioned parameter sets 3053 comprise multiple forms of input and data (parameters, variables, etc.) and algorithms, including task performance metrics for a successful completion of a particular task, the control algorithms to be used by the humanoid actuation systems, as well as a breakdown of the task-execution sequence and the associated parameter sets, based on the physical entity/subsystem of the humanoid involved as well as the respective manipulation phases required to execute the task successfully. Additionally, a set of humanoid-specific actuator parameters are included in the datasets to specify the controller-gains for the specified control algorithms, as well as the time-history profiles for motion/velocity and force/torque for each actuation device(s) involved in the task execution.
[00582] The MML database 3054 comprises multiple low- to higher-level of data and software modules necessary for a humanoid to accomplish any specific low- to high-level task. The libraries not only contain MM datasets generated previously, but also other libraries, such as currently-existing controller-functionality relating to dynamic control (KDC), machine-vision (OpenCV) and other interaction/inter-process communication libraries (ROS, etc.). The humanoid controller 3056 is also a software system comprising the high-level controller software engine 3057 that uses high-level task- execution descriptions to feed machine-executable instructions to the low-level controller 3059 for execution on, and with, the humanoid robot platform.
[00583] The high-level controller software engine 3057 builds the application-specific task-based robotic instruction-sets, which are in turn fed to a command sequencer software engine that creates machine-understandable command and control sequences for the command executor GG8. The software engine 3052 decomposes the command sequence into motion and action goals and develops execution-plans (both in time and based on performance levels), thereby enabling the generation of time-sequenced motion (positions & velocities) and interaction (forces and torques) profiles, which are then fed to the low-level controller 3059 for execution on the humanoid robot platform by the affected individual actuator controllers 3060, which in turn comprise at least their own respective motor controller and power hardware and software and feedback sensors.
[00584] The low level controller contain actuator controllers which use digital controller, electronic power-driver and sensory hardware to feed software algorithms with required set-points for position/velocity and force/torque, which the controller is tasked to faithfully replicate along a time- stamped sequence, relying on feedback sensor signals to ensure the required performance fidelity. The controller remains in a constant loop to ensure all set-points are achieved over time until the required motion/interaction step(s)/profile(s) are completed, while higher-level task-performance fidelity is also being monitored by the high-level task performance monitoring software module in the command executor 3058, leading to potential modifications in the high-to-low motion/interaction profiles fed to the low-level controller to ensure task-outcomes fall within required performance bounds and meet specified performance metrics.
[00585] In a teach-playback controller 3061, a robot is led through a set of motion profiles, which are continuously stored in a time-synched fashion, and then 'played-back' by the low-level controller by controlling each actuated element to exactly follow the motion profile previously recorded. This type of control and implementation are necessary to control a robot, some of which may be available commercially. While the present described disclosure utilizes a low-level controller to execute machine- readable time-synched motion/interaction profiles on a humanoid robot, embodiments of the present disclosure are directed to techniques that are much more generic than teach-motions, more automated and far more capable process, more complexity, allowing one to create and execute a potentially high number of simple to complex tasks in a far more efficient and cost-effective manner.
[00586] FIG. 108 depicts the different types of sensor categories 3070 and their associated types for studio-based and robot-based sensory data input categories and types, which would be involved in both the creator studio-based recording step and during the robotic execution of the respective task. These sensory data-sets form the basis upon which minimanipulation action-libraries are built, through a multi-loop combination of the different control actions based on particular data and/or to achieve particular data-values to achieve a desired end-result, whether it be very focused 'sub-routine' (grab a knife, strike a piano-key, paint a line on canvas, etc.) or a more generic MM routine (prepare a salad, play Shubert's #5 piano concerto, paint a pastoral scene, etc.); the latter is achievable through a concatenation of multiple serial and parallel combinations of MM subroutines. [00587] Sensors have been grouped in three categories based on their physical location and portion of a particular interaction that will need to be controlled. Three types of sensors (External 3071, Internal 3073, and Interface 3072) feed their data sets into a data-suite process 3074 that forwards the data over the proper communication link and protocol to the data processing and/or robot-controller engine(s) 3075.
[00588] External Sensors 3071 comprise sensors typically located/used external to the dual-arm robot torso/humanoid and tend to model the location and configuration of the individual systems in the world as well as the dual-arm torso/humanoid. Sensor types used for such a suite would include simple contact switches (doors, etc.), electromagnetic (EM) spectrum based sensors for one-dimensional range measurements (IR rangers, etc.), video cameras to generate two-dimensional information (shape, location, etc.), and three-dimensional sensors used to generate spatial location and configuration information using bi-/tri-nocular cameras, scanning lasers and structured light, etc.).
[00589] Internal Sensors 3073 are sensors internal to the dual-arm torso/humanoid, mostly measuring internal variables, such as arm/limb/joint positions and velocity, actuator currents and joint- and Cartesian forces and torques, haptic variables (sound, temperature, taste, etc.) binary switches (travel limits, etc.) as well as other equipment-specific presence switches. Additional One-/two- and three-dimensional sensor types (such as in the hands) can measure range/distance, two-dimensional layouts via video camera and even built-in optical trackers (such as in a torso-mounted sensor-head).
[00590] Interface-sensors 3072 are those kinds of sensors that are used to provide high-speed contact and interaction movements and forces/torque information when the dual-arm torso/humanoid interacts with the real world during any of its tasks. These are critical sensors as they are integral to the operation of critical MM sub-routine actions such as striking a piano-key in just the right way (duration and force and speed, etc.) or using a particular sequence of finger-motions to grab and achieve a safe grab of a knife to orient it to be able for a particular task (cut a tomato, strike a n egg, crush garlic gloves, etc.). These sensors (in order of proximity) can provide information related to the stand-off /contact distance between the robot appendages to the world, the associated capacitance/inductance between the endeffector and the world measurable immediately prior to contact, the actual contact presence and location and its associated surface properties (conductivity, compliance, etc.) as well as associated interaction properties (force, friction, etc.) and any other haptic variables of importance (sound, heat, smell, etc.). [00591] FIG. 109 depicts a block diagram illustrating a system-based minimanipulation library action- based dual-arm and torso topology 3080 for a dual-arm torso/humanoid system 3082 with two individual but identical arms 1 (3090) and 2 (3100), connected through a torso 3110. Each arm 3090 and 3100 are split internally into a hand (3091, 3101) and a limb-joint sections 3095 and 3105. Each hand 3091, 3101 is in turn comprised of a one or more finger(s) 3092 and 3102, a palm 3093 and 3103, and a wrist 3094 and 3104. Each of the limb-joint sections 3095 and 3105 are in turn comprised of a forearm- limb 3096 and 3106, an elbow-joint 3097 and 3107, an upper-arm-limb 3098 and 3108, as well as a shoulder-joint 3099 and 3109.
[00592] The interest in grouping the physical layout as shown in FIG. BB is related to the fact that MM actions can readily be split into actions performed mostly by a certain portion of a hand or limb/joint, thereby reducing the parameter-space for control and adaptation/optimization during learning and playback, dramatically. It is a representation of the physical space into which certain subroutine or main minimanipulation (MM) actions can be mapped, with the respective variables/parameters needed to describe each minimanipulation (MM) being both minimal/necessary and sufficient.
[00593] A breakdown in the physical space-domain also allows for a simpler breakdown of minimanipulation (MM) actions for a particular task into a set of generic minimanipulation (sub-) routines, dramatically simplifying the building of more complex and higher-level complexity minimanipulation (MM) actions using a combination of serial/parallel generic minimanipulation (MM) (sub-) routines. Note that the physical domain breakdown to readily generate minimanipulation (MM) action primitives (and/or sub-routines), is but one of the two complementary approaches1 allowing for simplified parametric descriptions of minimanipulation (MM) (sub-) routines to allow one to properly build a set of generic and task-specific minimanipulation (MM) (sub-) routines or motion primitives to build up a complete (set of) motion-library(ies).
[00594] FIG. 110 depicts a dual-arm torso humanoid robot system 3120 as a set of manipulation function phases associated with any manipulation activity, regardless of the task to be accomplished, for MM library manipulation-phase combinations and transitions for task-specific action-sequences 3120.
[00595] Hence in order to build an ever more complex and higher level set of minimanipulation (MM) motion-primitive routines form a set of generic sub-routines, a high-level minimanipulation (MM) can be thought of as a transition between various phases of any manipulation, thereby allowing for a simple concatenation of minimanipulation (MM) sub-routines to develop a higher-level minimanipulation routine (motion-primitive). Note that each phase of a manipulation (approach, grasp, maneuver, etc.) is itself its own low-level minimanipulation described by a set of parameters involved in controlling motions and forces/torques (internal, external as well as interface variables) involving one or more of the physical domain entities [finger(s), palm, wrist, limbs, joints (elbow, shoulder, etc.), torso, etc.].
[00596] Arm 1 3131 of a dual-arm system, can be thought of as using external and internal sensors as defined in FIG. 108, to achieve a particular location 3131 of the endeffector, with a given configuration 3132 prior to approaching a particular target (tool, utensil, surface, etc.), using interface- sensors to guide the system during the approach-phase 3133, and during any grasping-phase 3035 (if required); a subsequent handling-/maneuvering-phase 3136 allows for the endeffector to wield an instrument in it grasp (to stir, draw, etc.). The same description applies to an Arm 2 3140, which could perform similar actions and sequences.
[00597] Note that should a minimanipulation (MM) sub-routine action fail (such as needing to re- grasp), all the minimanipulation sequencer has to do is to jump back backwards to a prior phase and repeat the same actions (possibly with a modified set of parameters to ensure success, if needed). More complex sets of actions, such playing a sequence of piano-keys with different fingers, involves a repetitive jumping-loops between the Approach 3133, 3134 and the Contact 3134, 3144 phases, allowing for different keys to be struck in different intervals and with different effect (soft/hard, short/long, etc.); moving to different octaves on the piano key-scale would simply require a phase- backwards to the configuration-phase 3132 to reposition the arm, or possibly even the entire torso 3140 through translation and/or rotation to achieve a different arm and torso orientation 3151.
[00598] Arm 2 3140 could perform similar activities in parallel and independent of Arm 3130, or in conjunction and coordination with Arm 3130 and Torso 3150, guided by the movement-coordination phase 315 (such as during the motions of arms and torso of a conductor wielding a baton), and/or the contact and interaction control phase 3153, such as during the actions of dual-arm kneading of dough on a table.
[00599] One aspect depicted in FIG. 110, is that minimanipulations (MM) ranging from the lowest- level sub-routine to the more higher level motion-primitives or more complex minimanipulation (MM) motions and abstraction sequences, can be generated from a set of different motions associated with a particular phase which in turn have a clear and well-defined parameter-set (to measure, control and optimize through learning). Smaller parameter-sets allow for easier debugging and sub-routines that an be guaranteed to work, allowing for a higher-level MM routines to be based completely on well-defined and successful lower-level MM sub-routines.
[00600] Notice that coupling a minimanipulation (sub-) routine to a not only a set of parameters required to be monitored and controlled during a particular phase of a task-motion as depicted in FIG. 110, but also associated further with a particular physical (set of) units as broken down in FIG. 109, allows for a very powerful set of representations to allow for intuitive minimanipulation (MM) motion- primitives to be generated and compiled into a set of generic and task-specific minimanipulation (MM) motion/action libraries.
[00601] FIG. Ill depicts a flow diagram illustrating the process 3160 of minimanipulation Library(ies) generation, for both generic and task-specific motion-primitives as part of the studio-data generation, collection and analysis process. This figure depicts how sensory-data is processed through a set of software engines to create a set of minimanipulation libraries containing datasets with parameter- values, time-histories, command-sequences, performance-measures and -metrics, etc. to ensure low- and higher-level minimanipulation motion primitives result in a successful completion of low-to-complex remote robotic task-executions.
[00602] In a more detailed view, it is shown how sensory data is filtered and input into a sequence of processing engines to arrive at a set of generic and task-specific minimanipulation motion primitive libraries. The processing of the sensory data 3162 identified in FIG. 108 involves its filtering-step 3161 and grouping it through an association engine 3163, where the data is associated with the physical system elements as identified in FIG. 109 as well as manipulation-phases as described in FIG. 110, potentially even allowing for user input 3164, after which they are processed through two MM software engines.
[00603] The MM data-processing and structuring engine 3165 creates an interim library of motion- primitives based on identification of motion-sequences 3165-1, segmented groupings of manipulation steps 3165-2 and then an abstraction-step 3165-3 of the same into a dataset of parameter-values for each minimanipulation step, where motion-primitives are associated with a set of pre-defined low- to high-level action-primitives 3165-5 and stored in an interim library 3165-4. As an example, process 3165- 1 might identify a motion-sequence through a dataset that indicates object-grasping and repetitive back-and-forth motion related to a studio-chef grabbing a knife and proceeding to cut a food item into slices. The motion-sequence is then broken down in 3165-2 into associated actions of several physical elements (fingers and limbs/joints) shown in FIG. 109 with a set of transitions between multiple manipulation phases for one or more arm(s) and torso (such as controlling the fingers to grasp the knife, orienting it properly, translating arms and hands to line up the knife for the cut, controlling contact and associated forces during cutting along a cut-plane, re-setting the knife to the beginning of the cut along a free-space trajectory and then repeating the contact/force-control/trajectory-following process of cutting the food-item indexed for achieving a different slice width/angle). The parameters associated with each portion of the manipulation-phase are then extracted and assigned numerical values in 3165- 3, and associated with a particular action-primitive offered by 3165-5 with mnemonic descriptors such as 'grab', 'align utensil', 'cut', 'index-over', etc.
[00604] The interim library data 3165-4 is fed into a learning-and-tuning engine 3166, where data from other multiple studio-sessions 3168 is used to extract similar minimanipulation actions and their outcomes 3166-1 and comparing their data sets 3166-2, allowing for parameter-tuning 3166-3 within each minimanipulation group using one or more of standard machine-learning/-parameter-tuning techniques in an iterative fashion 3166-5. A further level-structuring process 3166-4 decides on breaking the minimanipulation motion-primitives into generic low-level sub-routines and higher-level minimanipulations made up of a sequence (serial and parallel combinations) of sub-routine action- primitives.
[00605] A following library builder 3167 then organizes all generic minimanipulation routines into a set of generic multi-level minimanipulation action-primitives with all associated data (commands, parameter-sets and expected/required performance metrics) as part of a single generic minimanipulation library 3167-2. A separate and distinct library is then also built as a task-specific library 3167-1 that allows for assigning any sequence of generic minimanipulation action-primitives to a specific task (cooking, painting, etc.), allowing for the inclusion of task-specific datasets which only pertain to the task (such as kitchen data and parameters, instrument-specific parameters, etc.) which are required to replicate the studio-performance by a remote robotic system.
[00606] A separate MM library access manager 3169 is responsible for checking-out proper libraries and their associated datasets (parameters, time-histories, performance metrics, etc.) 3169-1 to pass onto a remote robotic replication system, as well as checking back in updated minimanipulation motion primitives (parameters, performance metrics, etc.) 3169-2 based on learned and optimized minimanipulation executions by one or more same/different remote robotic systems. This ensures the library continually grows and is optimized by a growing number of remote robotic execution platforms. [00607] FIG. 112 depicts a block diagram illustrating the process of how a remote robotic system would utilize the minimanipulation (MM) library(ies) to carry out a remote replication of a particular task (cooking, painting, etc.) carried out by an expert in a studio-setting, where the expert's actions were recorded, analyzed and translated into machine-executable sets of hierarchically-structured minimanipulation datasets (commands, parameters, metrics, time-histories, etc.) which when downloaded and properly parsed, allow for a robotic system (in this case a dual-arm torso/humanoid system) to faithfully replicate the actions of the expert with sufficient fidelity to achieve substantially the same end-result as that of the expert in the studio-setting.
[00608] At a high level, this is achieved by downloading the task-descriptive libraries containing the complete set of minimanipulation datasets required by the robotic system, and providing them to a robot controller for execution. The robot controller generates the required command and motion sequences that the execution module interprets and carries out, while receiving feedback from the entire system to allow it to follow profiles established for joint and limb positions and velocities as well as (internal and external) forces and torques. A parallel performance monitoring process uses task- descriptive functional and performance metrics to track and process the robot's actions to ensure the required task-fidelity. A minimanipulation learning-and-adaptation process is allowed to take any minimanipulation parameter-set and modify it should a particular functional result not be satisfactory, to allow the robot to successfully complete each task or motion-primitive. U pdated parameter data is then used to rebuild the modified minimanipulation parameter set for re-execution as well as for updating/rebuilding a particular minimanipulation routine, which is provided back to the original library routines as a modified/re-tuned library for future use by other robotic systems. The system monitors all minimanipulation steps until the final result is achieved and once completed, exits the robotic execution loop to await further commands or human input.
[00609] In specific detail the process outlined above, can be detailed as the sequences described below. The MM library 3170, containing both the generic and task-specific MM-libraries, is accessed via the MM library access manager 3171, which ensures all the required task-specific data sets 3172 required for the execution and verification of interim/end-result for a particular task are available. The data set includes at least, but is not limited to, all necessary kinematic/dynamic and control parameters, time-histories of pertinent variables, functional and performance metrics and values for performance validation and all the MM motion libraries relevant to the particular task at hand. [00610] All task-specific datasets 3172 are fed to the robot controller 3173. A command sequencer 3174 creates the proper sequential/parallel motion sequences with an assigned index-value T, for a total of Ί=Ν' steps, feeding each sequential/parallel motion command (and data) sequence to the command executor 3175. The command executor 3175 takes each motion-sequence and in turn parses it into a set of high-to-low command signals to actuation and sensing systems, allowing the controllers for each of these systems to ensure motion-profiles with required position/velocity and force/torque profiles are correctly executed as a function of time. Sensory feedback data 3176 from the (robotic) dual-arm torso/humanoid system is used by the profile-following function to ensure actual values track desired/commanded values as close as possible.
[00611] A separate and parallel performance monitoring process 3177 measures the functional performance results at all times during the execution of each of the individual minimanipulation actions, and compares these to the performance metrics associated with each minimanipulation action and provided in the task-specific minimanipulation data set provided in 3172. Should the functional result be within acceptable tolerance limits to the required metric value(s), the robotic execution is allowed to continue, by way of incrementing the minimanipulation index value to Ί++', and feeding the value and returning control back to the command-sequencer process 3174, allowing the entire process to continue in a repeating loop. Should however the performance metrics differ, resulting in a discrepancy of the functional result value(s), a separate task-modifier process 3178 is enacted.
[00612] The minimanipulation task-modifier process 3178 is used to allow for the modification of parameters describing any one task-specific minimanipulation, thereby ensuring that a modification of the task-execution steps will arrive at an acceptable performance and functional result. This is achieved by taking the parameter-set from the 'offending' minimanipulation action-step and using one or more of multiple techniques for parameter-optimization common in the field of machine-learning, to rebuild a specific minimanipulation step or sequence MM; into a revised minimanipulation step or sequence MMi*. The revised step or sequence MM,* is then used to rebuild a new command-Osequence that is passed back to the command executor 3175 for re-execution. The revised minimanipulation step or sequence MM,* is then fed to a re-build function that re-assembles the final version of the minimanipulation dataset, that led to the successful achievement of the required functional result,, so it may be passed to the task- and parameter monitoring process 3179.
[00613] The task- and parameter monitoring process 3179 is responsible for checking for both the successful completion of each minimanipulation step or sequence, as well as the final/proper minimanipulation dataset considered responsible for achieving the required performance-levels and functional result. As long as the task execution is not completed, control is passed back to the command sequencer 3174. Once the entire sequences have been successfully executed, implying 'Ί=Ν', the process exits (and presumably awaits further commands or user input. For each sequence-counter value T, the monitoring task 3179 also forwards the sum of all rebuilt minimanipulation parameter sets∑(MM|*) back to the MM library access manager 3171 to allow it to update the task-specific library(ies) in the remote MM library 3170 shown in FIG. 111. The remote library then updates its own internal task-specific minimanipulation representation [setting ∑(MMi new) = ∑(MMi*)], thereby making an optimized minimanipulation library available for all future robotic system usage.
[00614] FIG. 113 depicts a block diagram illustrating an automated minimanipulation parameter-set building engine 3180 for a minimanipulation task-motion primitive associated with a particular task. It provides a graphical representation of how the process of building (a) (sub-) routine for a particular minimanipulation of a particular task is accomplished based on using the physical system groupings and different manipulation-phases, where a higher-level minimanipulation routine can be built up using multiple low-level minimanipulation primitives (essentially sub-routines comprised of small and simple motions and closed-loop controlled actions) such as grasp, grasp the tool, etc. This process results in a sequence (basically task- and time-indexed matrices) of parameter values stored in multi-dimensional vectors (arrays) that are applied in a stepwise fashion based on sequences of simple maneuvers and steps/actions. In essence this figure depicts an example for the generation of a sequence of minimanipulation actions and their associated parameters, reflective of the actions encapsulated in the MM Library Processing & Structuring Engine 3160 from FIG. 112.
[00615] The example depicted in FIG. 113 shows a portion of how a software engine proceeds to analyze sensory-data to extract multiple steps from a particular studio data set. In this case it is the process of grabbing a utensil (a knife for instance) and proceeding to a cutting-station to grab or hold a particular food-item (such as a loaf of bread) and aligning the knife to proceed with cutting (slices). The system focuses on Arm 1 in Step 1., which involves the grabbing of a utensil (knife), by configuring the hand for grabbing (l.a.), approaching the utensil in a holder or on a surface (l.b.), performing a predetermined set of grasping-motions (including contact-detection and -force control not shown but incorporated in the GRASP minimanipulation step I.e.) to acquire the utensil and then move the hand in free-space to properly align the hand/wrist for cutting operations. The system thereby is able to populate the parameter-vectors (1 thru 5) for later robotic control. The system returns to the next step that involves the torso in Step 2., which comprises a sequence of lower-level minimanipuiations to face the work (cutting) surface (2. a.), align the dual-arm system (2.b.) and return for the next step (2.c). In the next Step 3., the Arm2 (the one not holding the utensil/knife), is commanded to align its hand (3. a.) for a larger-object grasp, approach the food item (3.b.; involves possibly moving all limbs and joints and wrist; 3.c), and then move until contact is made (3.c.) and then push to hold the item with sufficient force (3.d.), prior to aligning the utensil (3.f.) to allow for cutting operations after a return (3.g.) and proceeding to the next step(s) (4. and so on).
[00616] The above example illustrates the process of building a minimanipulation routine based on simple sub-routine motions (themselves also minimanipuiations) using both a physical entity mapping and a manipulation-phase approach which the computer can readily distinguish and parameterize using external/internal/interface sensory feedback data from the studio-recording process. This minimanipulation library building-process for process-parameters generates 'parameter-vectors' which fully describe a (set of) successful minimanipulation action(s), as the parameter vectors include sensory- data, time-histories for key variables as well as performance data and metrics, allowing a remote robotic replication system to faithfully execute the required task(s). The process is also generic in that it is agnostic to the task at hand (cooking, painting, etc.), as it simply builds minimanipulation actions based on a set of generic motion- and action-primitives. Simple user input and other pre-determined action- primitive descriptors can be added at any level to more generically describe a particular motion- sequence and to allow it to be made generic for future use, or task-specific for a particular application. Having minimanipulation datasets comprised of parameter vectors, also allows for continuous optimization through learning, where adaptions to parameters are possible to improve the fidelity of a particular minimanipulation based on field-data generated during robotic replication operations involving the application (and evaluation) of minimanipulation routines in one or more generic and/or task-specific libraries.
[00617] FIG. 114A is a block diagram illustrating a data-centric view of the robotic architecture (or robotic system), with a central robotic control module contained in the central box, in order to focus on the data repositories. The central robotic control module 3191 contains working memory needed by all the processes disclosed in <fill in>. In particular the Central Robotic Control establishes the mode of operation of the Robot, for instance whether it is observing and learning new minimanipuiations, from an external teacher, or executing a task or in yet a different processing mode. [00618] A working memory 1 3192 contains all the sensor readings for a period of time until the present: a few seconds to a few hours - depending on how much physical memory, typical would be about 60 seconds. The sensor readings come from the on-board or off-board robotic sensors and may include video from cameras, ladar, sonar, force and pressure sensors (haptic), audio, and/or any other sensors. Sensor readings are implicitly or explicitly time-tagged or sequence-tagged (the latter means the order in which the sensor readings were received).
[00619] A working memory 2 3193 contains all of the actuator commands generated by the Central Robotic Control and either passed to the actuators, or queued to be passed to same at a given point in time or based on a triggering event (e.g. the robot completing the previous motion). These include all the necessary parameter values (e.g. how far to move, how much force to apply, etc.).
[00620] A first database (database 1) 3194 contains the library of all minimanipulations (MM) known to the robot, including for each MM, a triple <PRE, ACT, POST>, where PRE = {s1, s2,—, sn] is a set of items in the world state that must be true before the actions ACT = [α1#α2, ... , k] can take place, and result in a set of changes to the world state denoted as POST =
Figure imgf000165_0001
pm}- In a preferred embodiment, the MMs are index by purpose, by sensors and actuators they involved, and by any other factor that facilitates access and application. In a preferred embodiment each POST result is associated with a probability of obtaining the desired result if the MM is executed. The Central Robotic Control both accesses the MM library to retrieve and execute MM's and updates it, e.g. in learning mode to add new MMs.
[00621] A second database (database 2) 3195 contains the case library, each case being a sequence of minimanipulations to perform a give task, such as preparing a given dish, or fetching an item from a different room. Each case contains variables (e.g. what to fetch, how far to travel, etc.) and outcomes (e.g. whether the particular case obtained the desired result and how close to optimal - how fast, with or without side-effects etc.). The Central Robotic Control both accesses the Case Library to determine if has a known sequence of actions for a current task, and updates the Case Library with outcome information upon executing the task. If in learning mode, the Central Robotic Control adds new cases to the case library, or alternately deletes cases found to be ineffective.
[00622] A third database (database 3) 3196 contains the object store, essentially what the robot knows about external objects in the world, listing the objects, their types and their properties. For instance, an knife is of type "tool" and "utensil" it is typically in a drawer or countertop, it has a certain size range, it can tolerate any gripping force, etc. An egg is of type "food", it has a certain size range, it is typically found in the refrigerator, it can tolerate only a certain amount of force in gripping without breaking, etc. The object information is queried while forming new robotic action plans, to determine properties of objects, to recognize objects, and so on. The object store can also be updated when new objects introduce and it can update its information about existing objects and their parameters or parameter ranges.
[00623] A fourth database (database 4) 3197 contains information about the environment in which the robot is operating, including the location of the robot, the extent of the environment (e.g. the rooms in a house), their physical layout, and the locations and quantities of specific objects within that environment. Database 4 is queried whenever the robot needs to update object parameters (e.g. locations, orientations), or needs to navigate within the environment. It is updated frequently, as objects are moved, consumed, or new objects brought in from the outside (e.g. when the human returns form the store or supermarket).
[00624] FIG. 114B is a block diagram illustrating examples of various minimanipulation data formats in the composition, linking and conversion of minimanipulation robotic behavior data. In composition, high-level MM behavior descriptions in a dedicated/abstraction computer programming language are based on the use of elementary MM primitives which themselves may be described by even more rudimentary MM in order to allow for building behaviors from ever-more complex behaviors.
[00625] An example of a very rudimentary behavior might be 'finger-curl', with a motion primitive related to 'grasp' that has all 5 fingers curl around an object, with a high-level behavior termed 'fetch utensil' that would involve arm movements to the respective location and then grasping the utensil with all five fingers. Each of the elementary behaviors (incl. the more rudimentary ones as well) have a correlated functional result and associated calibration variables describing and controlling each.
[00626] Linking allows for behavioral data to be linked with the physical world data, which includes data related to the physical system (robot parameters and environmental geometry, etc.), the controller (type and gains/parameters) used to effect movements, as well as the sensory-data (vision, dynamic/static measures, etc.) needed for monitoring and control, as well as other software-loop execution-related processes (communications, error-handling, etc.).
[00627] Conversion takes all linked MM data, from one or more databases, and by way of a software engine, termed the Actuator Control Instruction Code Translator & Generator, thereby creating machine-executable (low-level) instruction code for each actuator (A! thru An) controller (which themselves run a high-bandwidth control loop in position/velocity and/or force/torque) for each time- period (ti thru tm), allowing for the robot system to execute commanded instruction in a continuous set of nested loops.
[00628] FIG. 115 is a block diagram illustrating one perspective on the different levels of bidirectional abstractions 3200 between the robotic hardware technical concepts 3206, the robotic software technical concepts 3208, the robotic business concepts 3202, and mathematical algorithms 3204 for carrying the robotic technical concepts. If the robotic concept of the present disclosure is viewed as vertical and horizontal concepts, the robotic business concept comprises business applications of the robotic kitchen at the top level 3202, mathematical algorithm 3204 of the robotic concept at the bottom level, and robotic hardware technical concepts 3206, and robotic software technical concepts 3208 between the robotic business concepts 3202 and mathematical algorithm 3204. Practically speaking, each of the levels in the robotic hardware technical concept, robotic software technical concept, mathematical algorithm, and business concepts interact with any of the levels bidirectionally as shown in FIG. 115. For example, a computer processor for processing software minimanipulations from a database in order to prepare a food dish by sending command instructions to the actuators for controlling the movements of each of the robotic elements on a robot to accomplish an optimal functional result in preparing the food dish. Details of the horizontal perspective of the robotic hardware technical concepts and robotic software technical concepts are described throughout the present disclosure, for example as illustrated in FIG. 100 through FIG. 114.
[00629] FIG. 116 is a block diagram illustrating a pair of robotic arms and five-fingered hands 3210. Each robotic arm 70 may be articulated at several joints such as the elbow 3212 and wrist 3214. Each hand 72 may have five fingers to replicate the motions and minimanipulations of a creator.
[00630] FIG. 117A is a diagram illustrating one embodiment of a humanoid type robot 3220. Humanoid robot 3220 may have a head 3222 with a camera to receive images of external environment and the ability to detect and detect target object's location ,and movement. The humanoid robot 3220may have a torso 3224 with sensors on body to detect body angle and motion, which may comprise a global positioning sensor or other locational sensor. The humanoid robot 3220 may have one or more dexterous hands 72, fingers and palm with a various sensors (laser, stereo cameras) incorporated into the hand and fingers. The hands 72 are capable of precise hold, grasp, release, finger pressing movements to perform subject expert human skills such as cooking, musical instrument playing, painting, etc. The humanoid robot 3220 may optionally comprise legs 3226 with an actuator on the legs to control speed of operation. Each leg 3226 may have a number of degrees of freedom (DOF) to perform human like walking running, and jumping movements. Similarly, the humanoid robot 3220 may have a foot 3228 with the capability to moving through a variety of terrains and environments.
[00631] Additionally, humanoid robot 3220 may have a neck 3230 with a number of DOF for forward/backward, up/down, left/right and rotation movements. It may have shoulder 3232 with a number of DOF for forward/backward, rotation movements, elbow with a number of DOF for forward/backward movements, and wrists 314 with a number of DOF for forward/backward, rotation movements. The humanoid robot 3220 may have hips 3234 with a number of DOF for forward/backward, left/ right and rotation movements, knees 3236 with a number of DOF for forward/backward movements, and ankles 3236 with a number of DOF for forward/backward and left/ right movements. The humanoid robot 3220 may house a battery 3238 or other power source to allow it to move untethered about its operational space. The battery 3238 may be rechargeable and may be any type of battery or other power source known.
[00632] FIG. 117B is a block diagram illustrating one embodiment of humanoid type robot 3220 with a plurality of gyroscope 3240 installed in the robot body in the vicinity or at the location of respective joints. As an orientation sensor, the rotatable gyroscope 3240 shows the different angles for the humanoid to make angular movements with high degree of complexity, such as stooping or sitting down. The set of gyroscopes 3240 provides a method and feedback mechanism to maintain dynamic stability by the whole humanoid robot, as well as individual parts of the humanoid robot 3220. Gyroscopes 3240 may provide real time output data, such as such as euler angles, attitude quaternion, magnetometer, accelerometer, gyro data, GPS altitude, position and velocity.
[00633] FIG. 117C is graphical diagram illustrating the creator recording devices on a humanoid, including a body sensing suit, an arm exoskeleton, head gear, and sensing glove. In order to capture a skill and record the human creator's movements, in an embodiment, the creator can wear a body sensing suit or exoskeleton 3250. The suit may include head gear 3252, extremity exoskeletons, such as arm exoskeleton 3254, and gloves 3256. The exoskeletons may be covered with a sensor network 3258 with any numbers of sensor and reference points. These sensors and reference points allow creator recording devices 3260 to capture the creator's movements from the sensor network 3258 as long as the creator remains within the field of the creator recording devices 3260. Specifically, if the creator moves his hand while wearing glove 3256, the position in 3D space with be captured by the numerous sensor data points Dl, D2 ...Dn. Because of the body suit 3250 or the head gear 3252, the creator's movement s are not limited to the head but encompass the entire creator. In this manner, each movement may be broken down and categorized as a minimanipulation as part of the overall skill.
[00634] FIG. 118 is a block diagram illustrating a robotic human-skill subject expert electronic IP minimanipulation library 2100. Subject/skill library 2100 comprises any number of minimanipulation skills in a file or folder structure. The library may be arranged in any number of ways including but not limited to, by skill, by occupation, by classification, by environment, or any other catalog or taxonomy. It may be categorized using flat files or in a relational manner and may comprise an unlimited number of folder, and subfolder and a virtually unlimited number of libraries and minimanipulations. As seen in FIG. 118, the library comprises several module IP human-skill replication libraries 56, 2102, 2104, 2106, 3270, 3272, 3274, covering topics such as human culinary skills 56, human painting skills 2102, human musical instrument skills 2104, human nursing skills 2106, human house keeping skills 3270, and human rehab/therapist skills 3272. Additionally and/or alternatively, the robotic human-skill subject matter electronic IP minimanipulation library 2100 may also comprise basic human motion skills such as walking, running, jumping, stair climbing, etc. Although not a skill per se, creating minimanipulation libraries of basic human motions 3274 allows a humanoid robot to function and interact in a real world environment in an easier more human like manner.
[00635] FIG. 119 is a block diagram illustrating the creation process of an electronic library of general minimanipulations 3280 for replacing human-hand-skill movements. In this illustration, one general minimanipulation 3290 is described with respect to FIG. 119. The minimanipulation MM1 3292 produces a functional result 3294 for that particular minimanipulation (e.g., successfully hitting a 1st object with a 2nd object). Each minimanipulation can be broken down into sub manipulations or steps, for example, MM1 3292 comprises one or more minimanipulations (sub-minimanipulations), a minimanipulation MM1.1 3296 (e.g., pick up and hold object 1), a minimanipulation MM1.2 3310 (e.g., pick up and hold a 2nd object), a minimanipulation MM1.3 3314 (e.g., strike the 1st object with the 2nd object), a minimanipulation MM1.4n 3318 (e.g., open the 1st object). Additional sub-minimanipulations may be added or subtracted that are suitable for a particular minimanipulation that achieves a particular functional result. The definition of a minimanipulation depends in part how it is defined and the granularity used to define such a manipulation, i.e., whether a particular minimanipulation embodies several sub-minimanipulations, or if what was characterized as a sub-minimanipulation may also be defined as a broader minimanipulation in another context. Each of the sub-minimanipulations has a corresponding functional result, where the sub-minimanipulation MM1.1 3296 obtains a sub-functional result 3298, the sub-minimanipulation MM1.2 3310 obtains a sub-functional result 3312, the sub- minimanipulation MM1.3 3314 obtains a sub-functional result 3316, and the sub-minimanipulation M1.4n 3318 obtains a sub-functional result 3294. Similarly, the definition of a functional result depends in part how it is defined, whether a particular functional result embodies several functional results, or if what was characterized as a sub-functional-result may also be defined as a broader functional result is another context. Collectively, the sub-minimanipulation MM1.1 3296, the sub- minimanipulation MM1.2 3310, sub-minimanipulation MM1.3 3314, the sub- minimanipulation MM1.4n 3318 accomplishes the overall functional result 3294. In one embodiment, the overall functional result 3294 is the same as the functional result 3319 that is associated with the last sub-minimanipulation 3318.
[00636] Various possible parameters for each minimanipulation 1.1-l.n are tested to find the best way to execute a specific movement. For example minimanipulation 1.1 (MM1.1) may be holding an object or playing a chord on a piano. For this step of the overall minimanipulation 3290, all the various sub-minimanipulations for the various parameters are explored that complete step 1.1. That is, the different positions, orientations, and ways to hold the object, are tested to find an optimal way to hold the object. How does the robotic arm, hand or humanoid hold their fingers, palms, legs, or any other robotic part during the operation. All the various holding positions and orientations are tested. Next, the robotic hand, arm, or humanoid may pick up a second object to complete minimanipulation 1.2. The 2nd object, i.e., a knife may be picked up and all the different positions, orientations, and the way to hold the object may be tested and explored to find the optimal way to handle the object. This continues until minimanipulation l.n is completed and all the various permutations and combinations for performing the overall minimanipulation are completed. Consequently, the optimal way to execute the mini- -manipulation 3290 is stored in the library database of mini-manipulations broken down into sub- minimanipulations 1.1-l.n. The saved minimanipulation then comprise the best way to perform the steps, of the desired task, i.e., the best way to hold the first object, the best way to hold the 2nd object, the best way to strike the 1st object with the second object, etc. These top combinations are saved as the best way to perform the overall minimanipulation 3290.
[00637] To create the minimanipulation that results in the best way to complete the task, multiple parameter combinations are tested to identify an overall set of parameters that ensure the desired functional result is achieved. The teaching/learning process for the robotic apparatus 75 involves multiple and repetitive tests to identify the necessary parameters to achieve the desired final functional result.
[00638] These tests may be performed over varying scenarios. For example, the size of the object can vary. The location at which the object is found within the workspace, can vary. The second object may be at different locations. The mini-manipulation must be successful in all of these variable circumstances. Once the learning process has been completed, results are stored as a collection of action primitives that together are known to accomplish the desired functional result.
[00639] FIG. 120 is a block diagram illustrating performing a task 3330 by robot by execution in multiple stages 3331-3333 with general minimanipulations. When action plans require sequences of minimanipulations as in FIG. 119, in one embodiment the estimated average accuracy of a robotic plan in terms of achieving its desired result is given by:
A(G( P) = 1 _ i la - m
n= .n maX(l8i't _ Pi'tl
where G represents the set of objective (or "goal") parameters (1st through nth) and P represents the set of Robotic apparatus 75 parameters (correspondingly (1st through nth). The numerator in the sum represents the difference between robotic and goal parameters (i.e. the error) and the denominator normalizes for the maximal difference). The sum gives the total normalized cumulative error (i.e.∑n=i n— τ ~^— ί) anc' multiplying by 1/n gives the average error. The
·■" max(|giit-piit|
complement of the average error (i.e. subtracting it from 1) corresponds to the average accuracy.
[00640] In another embodiment the accuracy calculation weighs the parameters for their relative importance, where each coefficient (each cti) represents the importance of the ith parameter, the normalized cumulative error is∑n-i n— a'!g P'^— r and the estimated average accuracy is given by:
" i'-n max(|gu-pi,t|
Figure imgf000171_0001
[00641] In FIG. 120, task 3330 may be broken down into stages which each need to be completed prior to the next stage. For example, stage 3331 must complete the stage result 3331d before advancing onto stage 3332. Additionally and/or alternatively, stages 3331 and 3332 may proceed in parallel. Each minimanipulation can be broken down into a series of action primitives which may result in a functional result for example, in stage Sj all the action primitives in the first defined minimanipulation 3331a must be completed yielding in a functional result 3331a' before proceeding to the second predefined minimanipulation 3331b (MM1.2). This in turn yields the functional result 3331b' etc. until the desired stage result 3331d is achieved. Once stage 1 is completed, the task may proceed to stage S2 3332. At this point, the action primitives for stage S2 are completed and so on until the task 3330 is completed. The ability to preform the steps in a repetitive fashion yields a predictable and repeatable way to perform the desired task.
[00642J FIG. 121 is a block diagram illustrating the real-time parameter adjustment during the execution phase of minimanipulations in accordance with the present disclosure. The performance of a specific task may require adjustments to the stored minimanipulations to replicate actual human skills and movements. In an embodiment, the real-time adjustments may be necessary to address variations in objects. Additionally and or alternatively, adjustments may be required to coordinate left and right hand, arm, or other robotic parts movements. Further, variations in an object requiring a minimanipulation in the right hand may affect the minimanipulation required by the left hand or palm. For example, if a robotic hand is attempting to peel fruit that it grasps with the right hand, the minimanipulations required by the left hand will be impacted by the variations of the object held in the right hand. As seen in FIG. 120, each parameter to complete the minimanipulation to achieve the functional result may require different parameters for the left hand. Specifically, each change in a parameter sensed by the right hand as a result of a parameter in the first object make impact the parameters used by the left hand and the parameters of the object in the left had.
[00643] In an embodiment, in order to complete minimanipulations 1-.1-1.3, to yield the functional result, right hand and left hand must sense and receive feedback on the object and the state change of the object in the hand or palm, or leg. This sensed state change may result in an adjustment to the parameters that comprise the minimanipulation. Each change in one parameter may yield in a change to each subsequent parameter and each subsequent required minimanipulation until the desired tasks result is achieved.
[00644] FIG. 122 is a block diagram illustrating a set of minimanipulations for making sushi in accordance with the present disclosure. As can be seen from the diagrams of FIG. 122, the functional result of making Nigiri Sushi can be divided into a series of minimanipulations 3351-3355. Each minimanipulation can be broken down further into a series of sub minimanipulations. In this embodiment, the functional result requires about five minimanipulations, which in turn may require additional sub-minimanipulations.
[00645] FIG. 123 is a block diagram illustrating a first minimanipulation 3351 of cutting fish in the set of minimanipulations for making sushi in accordance with the present disclosure. For each minimanipulation 3351a and 3351b, the time, position, and locations of standard ad non-standard objects must be captured and recorded. The initially captured values in the task may be captured in the tasks process or defined by a creator or by obtaining three-dimensional volume scanning of the real time process. In FIG. 122, the first minimanipulation, taking a piece of fish from a container and lying it on a cutting board requires the starting time and position and starting time for the left and right hand to remove the fish from the container and place it on the board. This requires a recording of finger position, pressure, orientation, and relationship to the other fingers, palm, and other hand to yield a coordinated movement. This also requires the determination of position and orientations of both standard and non-standard objects. For example, in this embodiment, the fish fillet is a non-standard object and may be different size, texture, and firmness weight from piece to piece. Its position within its storage container or location may vary and be non-standard as well. Standard objects may be a knife, its position and location, a cutting board, a container and their respective positions.
[00646] The second sub-minimanipulation in step 3351 may be 3351b. The step 3351b requires positioning the standard knife object in a correct orientation and applying the correct pressure, grasp, and orientation to slice the fish on the board. Simultaneously, the left hand, leg, pal, etc. is required to be performing coordinate steps to complement and coordinate the completion of the sub- minimanipulation. All these starting positions, times, and other sensor feedbacks and signals need to be captured and optimized to ensure a successful implementation of the action primitive to complete the sub-minimanipulation.
[00647] FIGS. 124-127 are block diagrams illustrating the second through fifth minimanipulations required to complete the task of making sushi, with minimanipulations 3352a, 3342b in FIG. 124, minimanipulations 3353a, 3353b in FIG. 125, minimanipulation 3354 in FIG. 126, and minimanipulation 3355 in FIG. 127. The minimanipulations to complete the functional task may require taking rice from a container, picking up a piece of fish, firming up the rice and fish into a desirable shape and pressing the fish to hug the rice to make the sushi in accordance with the present disclosure.
[00648] FIG. 128 is a block diagram illustrating a set of minimanipulations 3361-3365 for playing piano 3360 that may occur in any sequence or in any combination in parallel to obtain a functional result 3266. Tasks such as playing the piano may require coordination between the body, arms, hands, fingers, legs, and feet. All of these minimanipulations may be performed individually, collectively, in sequence, in series and/or in parallel.
[00649] The minimanipulations required to complete this task may be broken down into a series of techniques for the body and for each hand and foot. For example, there may be a series of right hand minimanipulations that successfully press and hold a series of piano keys according to playing techniques 1-n. Similarly, there may be a series of left hand minimanipulations that successfully press and hold a series of piano keys according to playing techniques 1-n. There may also be a series of minimanipulations identified to successfully press a piano pedal with the right or left foot. As will be understood by one skilled in the art, each minimanipulation for the right and left hands and feet, can be further broken down into sub-minimanipulations to yield the desired functional result, e.g. playing a musical composition on the piano.
[00650] FIG. 129 is a block diagram illustrating the first minimanipulation 3361 for the right hand and the second minimanipulation 3362 for the left hand of the set of minimanipulations that occur in parallel for playing piano from the set of minimanipulations for playing piano in accordance with the present disclosure. To create the minimanipulation library for this act, the time each finger starts and ends its pressing on the keys is captured. He piano keys may be defined as standard objects as they will not change from one occurrence to the next. Additionally, the number of pressing techniques for each time period (one time pressing key period, or holding time) - may be defined as a particular time cycle, where the time cycle could be the same time duration or different time durations.
[00651] FIG. 130 is a block diagram illustrating the third minimanipulation 3363 for the right foot and the fourth minimanipulation 3364 for the left foot of the set of minimanipulations that occur in parallel from the set of minimanipulations for playing piano in accordance with the present disclosure. To create the minimanipulation library for this act, the time each foot starts and ends its pressing on the pedals is captured. The Pedals may be defined as standard objects. The number of pressing techniques for each time period (one time pressing key period, or holding time) - may be defined as a particular time cycle, where the time cycle could be the same time duration or different time durations for each motion.
[00652] FIG. 131 is a block diagram illustrating the fifth minimanipulation 3365 that may be required for playing a piano. The minimanipulation illustrated in FIG. 131 relates to the body movement that may occur in parallel with one or more other minimanipulations from the set of minimanipulations for playing piano in accordance with the present disclosure. For example, the initial starting and ending positions of the body may be captured as well as interim positions captured as periodic intervals.
[00653] FIG. 132 is a block diagram illustrating a set of walking minimanipulations 3370 that can occur in any sequence, or in any combination in parallel, for a humanoid to walk in accordance with the present disclosure. As seen the minimanipulation illustrated in FIG. 132 may be divided into a number of segments. Segment 3371, the stride, 3372, the squash, segment 3373 the passing, segment 3374 the stretch and segment 3375, the stride with the other leg. Each segment is an individual minimanipulation that results in the functional result of the humanoid not falling down when walking on an uneven floor, or stairs, ramps or slopes. Each of the individual segments or minimanipulations may be described by how the individual portions of the leg and foot move during the segment. These individual minimanipulations may be captured, programed, or taught to the humanoid and each may be optimized based on the specific circumstances. In an embodiment, the minimanipulation library is captured from monitoring a creator. In another embodiment, the minimanipulation is created from a series of commands.
[00654] FIG. 133 is a block diagram illustrating the first minimanipulation of stride 3371 pose with the right and left leg in the set of minimanipulations for humanoid to walk in accordance with the present disclosure. As can be seen, the left and right leg, knee, and foot are arranged in a XYZ initial target position. The position may be based on the distance to the ground between the foot and the ground, the angle of the knee with respect to the ground and the overall height of the leg depending on the stepping technique and any potential obstacles. These initial starting parameters are recorded or captured for both the right and left, leg, knee and foot at the start of the minimanipulation. The minimanipulation is created and all the interim positions to complete the stride for minimanipulation 3371 are captured. Additional information, such as body position, center of gravity, and joint vectors may be required to be captured to insure the complete data required to complete the minimanipulation.
[00655] FIG. 134 is a block diagram illustrating the second minimanipulation of squash 3372 pose with the right and left leg in the set of minimanipulations for humanoid to walk in accordance with the present disclosure. As can be seen, the left and right leg, knee, and foot are arranged in a XYZ initial target position. The position may be based on the distance to the ground between the foot and the ground, the angle of the knee with respect to the ground and the overall height of the leg depending on the stepping technique and any potential obstacles. These initial starting parameters are recorded or captured for both the right and left, leg, knee and foot at the start of the minimanipulation. The minimanipulation is created and all the interim positions to complete the squash for minimanipulation
3372 are captured. Additional information, such as body position, center of gravity, and joint vectors may be required to be captured to insure the complete data required to complete the minimanipulation.
[00656] FIG. 135 is a block diagram illustrating the third minimanipulation of passing 3373 pose with the right and left leg in the set of minimanipulations for humanoid to walk in accordance with the present disclosure. As can be seen, the left and right leg, knee, and foot are arranged in a XYZ initial target position. The position may be based on the distance to the ground between the foot and the ground, the angle of the knee with respect to the ground and the overall height of the leg depending on the stepping technique and any potential obstacles. These initial starting parameters are recorded or captured for the right and left, leg, knee and foot at the start of the minimanipulation. The minimanipulation is created and all the interim positions to complete the passing for minimanipulation
3373 are captured. Additional information, such as body position, center of gravity, and joint vectors may be required to be captured to insure the complete data required to complete the minimanipulation.
[00657] FIG. 136 is a block diagram illustrating the fourth minimanipulation of stretch pose 3374 pose with the right and left leg in the set of minimanipulations for humanoid to walk in accordance with the present disclosure. As can be seen, the left and right leg, knee, and foot are arranged in a XYZ initial target position. The position may be based on the distance to the ground between the foot and the ground, the angle of the knee with respect to the ground and the overall height of the leg depending on the stepping technique and any potential obstacles. These initial starting parameters are recorded or captured for both the right and left, leg, knee and foot at the start of the minimanipulation. The minimanipulation is created and all the interim positions to complete the stretch for minimanipulation 3374 are captured. Additional information, such as body position, center of gravity, and joint vectors may be required to be captured to insure the complete data required to complete the minimanipulation.
[00658] FIG. 137 is a block diagram illustrating the fifth minimanipulation of stride 3375 pose (for the other leg) with the right and left leg in the set of minimanipulations for humanoid to walk in accordance with the present disclosure. As can be seen, the left and right leg, knee, and foot are arranged in a XYZ initial target position. The position may be based on the distance to the ground between the foot and the ground, the angle of the knee with respect to the ground and the overall height of the leg depending on the stepping technique and any potential obstacles. These initial starting parameters are recorded or captured for both the right and left, leg, knee and foot at the start of the minimanipulation. The minimanipulation is created and all the interim positions to complete the stride , for the other foot for minimanipulation 3375 are captured. Additional information, such as body position, center of gravity, and joint vectors may be required to be captured to insure the complete data required to complete the minimanipulation.
[00659] FIG. 138 is a block diagram illustrating a robotic nursing care module 3381 with a three- dimensional vision system in accordance with the present disclosure. Robotic nursing care module 3381 may be any dimension and size and may be designed for a single patient, multiple patients, patients needing critical care, or patients needing simple assistance. Nursing care module 3381 may be integrated into a nursing facility or may be installed in an assisted living, or home environment. Nursing care module 3381 may comprise a three-dimensional (3D) vision system, medical monitoring devices, computers, medical accessories, drug dispensaries or any other medical or monitoring equipment. Nursing care module 3381 may comprise other equipment and storage 3382 for any other medical equipment, monitoring equipment robotic control equipment. Nursing care module 3381 may house one or more sets of robotic arms, and hands or may include robotic humanoids. The Robotic arms may be mounted on a rail system in the top of the nursing care module 3381 or may be mounted from the walls, or floor. Nursing care module 3381 may comprise a 3D vision system 3383 or any other sensor system which may track and monitor patient and/or robotic movement within the module.
[00660] FIG. 139 is a block diagram illustrating a robotic nursing care module 3381 with standardized cabinets 3391 in accordance with the present disclosure. As shown in FIG. 138, nursing care module 3381 comprises 3D vision system 3383, and may further comprise cabinets 3391 for storing mobile medical carts with computers, and/or in imaging equipment, that can be replace by other standardized lab or emergency preparation carts. Cabinets 3391 may be used for housing and storing other medical equipment, which has been standardized for robotic use, such as wheelchairs, walkers, crutches, etc. Nursing care module 3381 may house a standardized bed of various sizes with equipment consoles such as headboard console 3392. Headboard console 3392 may comprise any accessory found in a standard hospital room including but not limited to medical gas outlets, direct, indirect, nightlight, switches, electric sockets, grounding jacks, nurse call buttons, suction equipment, etc. [00661] FIG. 140 is a block diagram illustrating a back view of a robotic nursing care module 3381 with one more standardized storages 3402, a standardized screen 3403, a standardized wardrobe 3404 in accordance with the present disclosure. In addition, FIG. 139 depicts railing system 3401 for robot arms/hands moving and storage/charging dock for robot arms/hands when in manual mode. Railing system 3401 may allow for horizontal movement in any direction and left/right. Front and back. It may be any type of rail or track and may accommodate one or more robot arms and hands. Railing system 3401 may incorporate power and control signals and may include wiring and other control cables necessary to control and or manipulate the installed robotic arms. Standardized storages 3402 may be any size and may be located in any standardized position within module 3381. Standardized storage 3402 may be used for medicines, medical equipment, and accessories or may be use for other patient items and/or equipment. Standardized screen 3403 may be a single or multiple multi purpose screens. It may be utilized for internet usage, equipment monitoring, entertainment, video conferencing, etc. There may be one or more screens 3403 installed within a nursing module 3381. Standardized wardrobe 3404 may be used to house a patient's personal belongings or may be used to store medical or other emergency equipment. Optional module 3405 may be coupled to or otherwise co-located with standardized nursing module 3381 and may include a robotic or manual bathroom module, kitchen module, bathing module or any other configured module that may be required to treat or house a patient within the standard nursing suite 3381. Railing systems 3401 may connect between modules or may be separate and may allow one or more robotic arms to traverse and/or travel between modules.
[00662] FIG. 141 is a block diagram illustrating a robotic nursing care module 3381 with a telescopic lift or body 3411 with a pair of robotic arms 3412 and a pair of robotic hands 3413 in accordance with the present disclosure. Robot arms 3412 are attached to the shoulder 3414 with a telescopic lift 3411 that moves vertically (up and down) and horizontally (left and right), as a way to move robotic arms 3412 and hands 3413. The telescopic lift 3411 can be moved as a shorter tube or a longer tube or any other rail system for extending the length of the robotic arms and hands. The arm 1402 and shoulder 3414 can move along the rail system 3401 between any positions within the nursing suite 3381. The robotic arms 3412, hands 3413 may move along the rail 3401 and lift system 3411 to access any point within the nursing suite 3381. In this manner, the robotic arms and hands can access, the bed, the cabinets, the medical carts for treatment or the wheel chairs. The robotic arms 3412 and hands 3413 in conjunction with the lift 3411 and rail 3401 may aide to lift a patient to sit a sitting or standing position or may assist placing the patient in a wheel chair or other medical apparatus. [00663] FIG. 142 is a block diagram illustrating a first example of executing a robotic nursing care module with various movements to aid an elderly patient in accordance with the present disclosure. Step (a) may occur at a predetermined time or may be initiated by a patient. Robot arms 3412 and robotic hands 3413 take the medicine or other test equipment from the designated standardized location (e.g. storage location 3402). During step (b) robot arms 3412, hands 3413, and shoulders 3414 moves to the bed via rail system 3401 and to the lower level and may turn to face the patient in the bed. At step (c) robot arms 3412 and hands 3413 perform the programed/required minimanipulation of giving medicine to a patient. Because the patient may be moving and is not standardized, 3D real time adjustment based on patient, standard/non standard objects position, orientation may be utilized to ensure successful a result. In this manner, the real time 3D visual system allows for adjustments to the otherwise standardized minimanipulations.
[00664] FIG. 143 is a block diagram illustrating a second example of executing a robotic nursing care module with the loading and unloading a wheel chair in accordance with the present disclosure. In position, (a) robot arms 3412 and hands 3413 perform minimanipulations of moving and lifting the senior/patient from a standard object, such as the wheel chair, and placing them on another standard object, such as laying them on the bed, with 3D real time adjustment based on patient, standard/non standard objects position, orientation to ensure successful result. During step (b) the robot arms/hands/shoulder may turn and move the wheelchair back to the storage cabinet after the patient has been removed. Additionally and/or alternatively, if there is more then one set of arms/hands, step (b) may be performed by one set, while step (a) is being completed. Cabinet. During step (c) the robot arms/hands open the cabinet door (standard object), push the wheelchair back in and close the door.
[00665] FIG. 144 depicts a humanoid robot 3500 serving as a facilitator between persons A 3502 and B 3504. In this embodiment, the humanoid robot acts as a real time communications facilitator between humans that are no co-located. In the embodiment, person A 3502 and B 3504 may be remotely located from each other. They may be located in different rooms within the same building, such as an office building or hospital, or may be located in different countries. Person A 3502 maybe co-located with a humanoid robot (not shown) or alone. Person B 3504 may also be co-located with a robot 3500. During communications between person A 3502 and person B 3504, the humanoid robot 3500 may emulate the movements and behaviors of person A 3502. Person A 3502 may be fitted with a garment or suit that contains sensors that translate the motions of person A 3502 into the motions of humanoid robot 3500. For example, in an embodiment, person A could wear a suit equipped with sensors that detect hand, torso, head, leg arms and feet movement. When Person B 3504 enters the room at the remote location person A 3502 may rise from a seated position and extend a hand to shake hands with person B 3504. Person A's 3502 movements are captured by the sensors and the information may be conveyed through wired or wireless connections to a system coupled to a wide area network, such as the internet. That sensor data may then be conveyed in real time or near real time via a wired or wireless connection to 3500 regardless of its physical location with respect to Person A 3500, based on the received sensor data will emulate the movements of Person A 3502 in the presence of person B 3504. In an embodiment, Person A 3502 and person B 3504 can shake hands via humanoid robot 3500. In this manner, person B 3504 can feel the same, grip positioning, and alignment of person A's hand through the robotic hand of humanoid robot's 3500 hand. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art, Humanoid robot 3500 is not limited to shaking hands and may be used for its vision, hearing, speech or other motions. It may be able to assist Person B 3504 in any way that person A could accomplish if person A 3502 were in the room with person B 3504. In one embodiment, the humanoid robot 3500 emulate person A's 3502 movements by minimanipulations for person B to feel the sensation of Person A 3502.
[00666] FIG. 145 depicts a humanoid robot 3500 serving as a therapist 3508 on person B 3504 while under the direct control of person A 3502. In this embodiment, the humanoid robot 3500 acts as a therapist for person B based on actual real time or captured movements of person A. In an embodiment, person A 3502 may be a therapist and person B 3504 a patient. In an embodiment, person A performs a therapy session on person B while wearing a sensor suit. The therapy session may be captured via the sensors and converted into a minimanipulation library to be used later by humanoid robot 3500. In an alternative embodiment, person A 3502 and person B 3504 may be remotely located from each other. Person A, the therapist may perform therapy on a stand in patient or an anatomically correct humanoid figure while wearing a sensor suit. Person A's 3502 movements may be captured by the sensors and transmitted to humanoid robot 3500 via recording and network equipment 3506. These captured and recorded movements are then conveyed to humanoid robot 3500 to apply to person B 3504. In this manner, person B may receive therapy from the humanoid robot 3500 based on pre-recorded therapy sessions performed either by person A or in real time remote from person A 3502. Person B will feel the same sensation of Person A's 3502 (therapist) hand (e.g., strong grip of soft grip) through the humanoid robot's 3500 's hand. The therapy can be scheduled to perform on same patient in a different time/day (e.g. every other day) or to different patient (person C, D) with each one having his/her pre-recorded program file. In one embodiment, the humanoid robot 3500 emulate person A's 3502 movements by minimanipulations for person B 3504 for replacing the therapy session.
[00667] FIG. 146 is a block diagram illustrating the first embodiment in the placement of motors relative to the robotic hand and arm with full torque require to move the arm, while FIG. 147 is a block diagram illustrating the second embodiment in the placement of motors relative to the robotic hand and arm with a reduced torque require to move the arm. A challenge in robotic design is to minimize mass and therefore weight, especially at the extremities of robotic manipulators (robotic arms) where it requires the maximal force to move and generates the maximal torque on the overall system. Electrical motors are a large contributor to the weight at the extremities of manipulators. The disclosure and design of new lighter-weight powerful electric motors is one way to alleviate the problem. Another way, the preferred way given current motor technology, is to change the placement of the motors so that they are as far away as possible from the extremities, but yet transmit the movement energy to the robotic manipulator at the extremity.
[00668] One embodiment requires placing a motor 3510 that controls the position of a robotic hand 72 not at the wrist where it would normally be placed in proximity of the hand, but rather further up in the robotic arm 70, preferentially just below the elbow 3212. In that embodiment the advantage of the motor placement closer to the elbow 3212 can be calculated as follows, starting with the original torque on the hand 72 caused by the weight of the hand.
Toriginai Qiand) = (whand + wmotor)dh(hand, elbow) where weight = grrii (gravitational constant g times mass of object i), and horizontal distance dh = length iand, elbow) cos θν for the vertical angle theta. However, if the motor is placed near (epsilon away from the joint), then the new torque is:
(hand) = (whand)dh(hand, elbow) + (wmotor)eh
[00669] Since the motor 3510 next to the elbow-joint 3212 the robotic arm contributes only epsilon- distance to the torque the torque in the new system is dominated by the weight of the hand, including whatever the hand may be carrying. The advantage of this new configuration is that the hand may lift greater weight with the same motor since the motor itself contributes very little to the torque.
[00670] A skilled artisan will appreciate the advantage of this aspect of the disclosure, and would also realize that a small corrective factor is needed to account for the mass of the device used to transmit the force exerted by the motor to the hand - such a device could be a set of small axels. Hence, the full new torque with this small corrective factor would be:
Tnew(hand) = (whand)dh(hand, elbow) + (wmotor)eh + waxeldh(hand, elbow) where the weight of the axel exerts half-torque since its center of gravity is half way between the hand and the elbow. Typically the weight of the axels is much less than the weight of the motor.
[00671] FIG. 148A is a pictorial diagrams illustrating robotic arms extending from an overhead mount for use in a robotic kitchen. As will be appreciated, the robotic arms may traverse in any direction along the overhead track and may be raised and lowered in order to perform the required minimanipulations.
[00672] FIG. 148B is an overhead pictorial diagrams illustrating robotic arms extending from an overhead mount for use in a robotic kitchen. As seen in FIGS. 148A-B, the placement of equipment, may be standardized. Specifically, in this embodiment, the oven 1316, cooktop 3520, sink 1308, and dishwasher 356 are located such that the robotic arms and hands know their exact location within the standardized kitchen.
[00673] FIG. 149A is a pictorial diagrams illustrating robotic arms extending from an overhead mount for use in a robotic kitchen. FIG. 149B is a top view of the embodiment depicted in FIG. 149A. FIGS 149A- B depict an alternative embodiment of the essential kitchen layout depicted in FIGS. 148A-B. In this embodiment, a "lift oven" 1491, is used. This allows for more space on the worktop and on surrounding surfaces to hang standardized objects containers. It may have the same dimensions as the kitchen module depicted in FIGS. 149A-B.
[00674] FIG. 150A is a pictorial diagrams illustrating robotic arms extending from an overhead mount for use in a robotic kitchen. FIG. 150B is a top view of the embodiment depicted in FIG. 150A. In this embodiment, the same external dimension are maintained as the kitchen module depicted in FIGS. 147A-B and 148A-B but with the lift oven 3522 installed. Additionally, in this embodiment, additional "sliding storages" 3524 and 3526 on both side are installed. A customized fridge (not shown) can be installed in one of these "sliding storages" 3524 and 3526.
[00675] FIG. 151A is a pictorial diagrams illustrating robotic arms extending from an overhead mount for use in a robotic kitchen. FIG. 151B is an overhead pictorial diagrams illustrating robotic arms extending from an overhead mount for use in a robotic kitchen. IN an embodiment, sliding storage compartments may be included in the kitchen module. As illustrated in FIGS. 151A-B, "sliding storages" 3524 may be installed on both side of the kitchen module. In this embodiment, the overall dimensions remain the same as those depicted in FIGS. 148-150. In an embodiment, a customized refrigerator may be installed in one of these "sliding storages" 3524. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art, there are many layouts and many embodiments that may be implemented for any standardized robotic module. These variations are not limited to kitchens, or patient care facilities, but may also be used for construction, manufacturing, assembly, food production, etc., without departing from the spirit of the disclosure.
[00676] FIGS. 152-161 are pictorial diagrams of the various embodiments of robotic gripping options in accordance with the present disclosure. FIGS. 162A-S are pictorial diagrams illustrating various cookware utensils with standardized handles suitable for the robotic hands. In an embodiment, kitchen handle 580 is designed to be used with the robotic hand 72. One or more ridges 580-1 are placed to allow the robotic hand to grasp the standardized handle in the same position every time and to minimize slippage and enhance grasp. The design of the kitchen handle 580 is intended to be universal (or standardized) so that the same handle 580 can attach to any type of kitchen utensils or other type of tool, e.g. a knife, a medical test probe, a screwdriver, a mop, or other attachment that the robotic hand may be required to grasp. Other types of standardized (or universal) handles may be designed without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure.
[00677] FIG. 163 is a pictorial diagram of a blender portion for use in the robotic kitchen. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art, any number of tool, equipment or appliances may be standardized and designed for use and control by the robotic hands and arms to perform any number of tasks. Once a minimanipulation is created for the operation of any tool or piece of equipment, the robotic hands or arms may repeatedly and consistently use the equipment in a uniform and reliable manner.
[00678] FIGS. 164A-C are pictorial diagrams illustrating the various kitchen holders for use in the robotic kitchen. Any one or all of them may be standardized and adopted for use in other environments. As will be appreciated, medical equipment, such as tape dispensers, flasks, bottles, specimen jars, bandage containers, etc. may be designed and implemented for use with the robotic arms and hands. FIGS. 165A-V are block diagram illustrating examples of manipulations but do not limit the present disclosure.
[00679] One embodiment of the present disclosure illustrates a universal android-type robotic device that comprises the following features or components. A robotic software engine, such as the robotic food preparation engine 56, is configured to replicate any type of human hands movements and products in an instrumented or standardized environment. The resulting product from the robotic replication can be (1) physical, such as a food dish, a painting, a work of art, etc., and (2) non-physical, such as the robotic apparatus playing a musical piece on a musical instrument, a health care assistant procedure, etc.
[00680] Several significant elements in the universal android-type (or other software operating systems) robotic device may include some or all of the following, or in combination with other features. First, the robotic operating or instrumented environment operates a robotic device providing standardized (or "standard") operating volume dimensions and architecture for Creator and Robotic Studios. Second, the robotic operating environment provides standardized position and orientation (xyz) for any standardized objects (tools, equipment, devices, etc.) operating within the environment. Third, the standardized features extend to, but are not limited by, standardized attendant equipment set, standardized attendant tools and devices set, two standardized robotic arms, and two robotic hands that closely resemble functional human hands with access to one or more libraries of minimanipulations, and standardized three-dimensional (3D) vision devices for creating dynamic virtual 3D-vision model of operation volume. This data can be used for hand motion capturing and functional result recognizing. Fourth, hand motion gloves with sensors are provided to capture precise movements of a creator. Fifth, the robotic operating environment provides standardized type/volume/size/weight of the required materials and ingredients during each particular (creator) product creation and replication process. Sixth, one or more types of sensors are use to capture and record the process steps for replication.
[00681] Software platform in the robotic operating environment includes the following subprograms. The software engine (e.g., robotic food preparation engine 56) captures and records arms and hands motion script subprograms during the creation process as human hands wear gloves with sensors to provide sensory data. One or more minimanipulations functional library subprograms are created. The operating or instrumented environment records three-dimensional dynamic virtual volume model subprogram based on a timeline of the hand motions by a human (or a robot) during the creation process. The software engine is configured to recognize each functional minimanipulation from the library subprogram during a task creation by human hands. The software engine defines the associated minimanipulations variables (or parameters) for each task creation by human hands for subsequent replication by the robotic apparatus. The software engine records sensor data from the sensors in an operating environment, which quality check procedure can be implemented to verify the accuracy of the robotic execution in replicating the creator's hand motions. The software engine includes an adjustment algorithms subprogram for adapting to any non-standardized situations (such as an object, volume, equipment, tools, or dimensions), which make a conversion from non-standardized parameters to standardized parameters to facilitate the execution of a task (or product) creation script. The software engine stores a subprogram (or sub software program) of a creator's hand motions (which reflect the intellectual property product of the creator) for generating a software script file for subsequent replication by the robotic apparatus. The software engine includes a product or recipe search engine to locate the desirable product efficiently. Filters to the search engine are provided to personalize the particular requirements of a search. An e-commerce platform is also provided for exchanging, buying, and selling any IP script (e.g., software recipe files), food ingredients, tools, and equipment to be made available on a designated website for commercial sale. The e-commerce platform also provides a social network page for users to exchange information about a particular product of interest or zone of interest.
[00682] One purpose of the robotic apparatus replicating is to produce the same or substantially the same product result, e.g., the same food dish, the same painting, the same music, the same writing, etc. as the original creator through the creator's hands. A high degree of standardization in an operating or instrumented environment provides a framework, while minimizing variance between the creator's operating environment and the robotic apparatus operating environment, which the robotic apparatus is able to produce substantially the same result as the creator, with some additional factors to consider. The replication process has the same or substantially the same timeline, with preferable the same sequence of minimanipulations, the same initial start time, the same time duration and the same ending time of each minimanipulation, while the robotic apparatus autonomously operates at the same speed of moving an object between minimanipulations. The same task program or mode is used on the standardized kitchen and standardized equipment during the recording and execution of the minimanipulation. A quality check mechanism, such as a three-dimensional vision and sensors, can be used to minimize or avoid any failed result, which adjustments to variables or parameters can be made to cater to non-standardized situations. An omission to use a standardized environment (i.e., not the same kitchen volume, not the same kitchen equipment, not the same kitchen tools, and not the same ingredients between the creator's studio and the robotic kitchen) increases the risk of not obtaining the same result when a robotic apparatus attempts to replicate a creator's motions in hopes of obtaining the same result. [00683] The robotic kitchen can operate in at least two modes, a computer mode and a manual mode. During the manual mode, the kitchen equipment includes buttons on an operating console (without the requirement to recognize information from a digital display or without the requirement to input any control data through touchscreen to avoid any entering mistake, during either recording or execution). In case of touchscreen operation, the robotic kitchen can provide a three-dimensional vision capturing system for recognizing current information of the screen to avoid incorrect operation choice. The software engine is operable with different kitchen equipment, different kitchen tools, and different kitchen devices in a standardized kitchen environment. A creator's limitation is to produce hand motions on sensor gloves that are capable of replication by the robotic apparatus in executing mini- manipulations. Thus, in on embodiment, the library (or libraries) of minimanipulations that are capable of execution by the robotic apparatus serves as functional limitations to the creator's motion movements. The software engine creates an electronic library of three-dimensional standardized objects, including kitchen equipment, kitchen tools, kitchen containers, kitchen devices, etc. The pre- stored dimensions and characteristics of each three-dimensional standardized object conserve resources and reduce the amount of time to generate a three-dimensional modeling of the object from the electronic library, rather than having to create a three-dimensional modeling in real time. In one embodiment, the universal android-type robotic device is capable to create a plurality of functional results. The functional results make success or optimal results from the execution of minimanipulations from the robotic apparatus, such as the humanoid walking, the humanoid running, the humanoid jumping, the humanoid (or robotic apparatus) playing musical composition, the humanoid (or robotic apparatus) painting a picture, and the humanoid (or robotic apparatus) making dish. The execution of minimanipulations can occur sequentially, in parallel, or one prior minimanipulation must be completed before the start of the next minimanipulation. To make humans more comfortable with a humanoid, the humanoid would make the same motions (or substantially the same) as a human and at a pace comfortable to the surrounding human(s). For example, if a person likes the way that a Hollywood actor or a model walks, the humanoid can operate with minimanipulations that exhibits the motion characteristics of the Hollywood actor (e.g., Angelina Jolie). The humanoid can also be customized with a standardized human type, including skin-looking cover, male humanoid, female humanoid, physical, facial characteristics, and body shape. The humanoid covers can be produced using three-dimensional printing technology at home. [00684] One example operating environment for the humanoid is a person's home; while some environments are fixed, others are not. The more that the environment of the house can be standardized, the less risk in operating the humanoid. If the humanoid is instructed to bring a book, which does not relate to a creator's intellectual property/intellectual thinking (IP), it requires a functional result without the IP, the humanoid would navigate the pre-defined household environment and execute one or more minimanipulations to bring the book and give the book to the person. Some three-dimensional objects, such as a sofa, have been previously created in the standardized household environment when the humanoid conducts its initial scanning or perform three-dimensiona l quality check. The humanoid may necessitate creating a three-dimensional modeling for an object that the humanoid does not recognized or that was not previously defined.
[00685] Sample types of kitchen equipment are illustrated as Table A in FIGS. 166A-L, which include kitchen accessories, kitchen appliances, kitchen timers, thermometers, mills for spices, measuring utensils, bowls, sets, slicing and cutting products, knives, openers, stands and holders, appliances for peeling and cutting, bottle caps, sieves, salt and pepper shakers, dish dryers, cutlery accessories, decorations and cocktails, molds, measuring containers, kitchen scissors, utensil for storages, potholders, railing with hooks, silicon mats, graters, presses, rubbing machines, knife sharpeners, breadbox, kitchen dishes for alcohol, tableware, utensils for table, dishes for tea, coffee, dessert, cutlery, kitchen appliances, children's dishes, a list of ingredient data, a list of equipment data, and a list of recipe data.
[00686] FIGS. 167A-167V illustrate sample types of ingredients in Table B, including meat, meat products, lamb, veal, beef, pork, birds, fish, seafood, vegetables, fruits, grocery, milk products, eggs, mushrooms, cheese, nuts, dried fruits, beverages, alcohol, greens, herbs, cereals, legumes, flours, spices, seasonings, and prepared products.
[00687] Sample lists of food preparation, methods, equipment, and cuisine are illustrated as Table C in FIGS. 168A-168Z, with a variety of sample bases illustrated in FIG . 169A-Z15. FIGS. 170A-170C illustrate sample types of cuisine and food dishes in Table D. FIGS. 171A-E illustrate one embodiment of robotic food preparation system.
[00688] FIG. 172A-C illustrate sample minimanipulations for a robot making sushi, a robot playing piano, a robot moving a robot by moving from a first position (A-position) to a second position (B- position), a robot moving the robot by running from a first position to a second position, jumping from a first position to a second position, a humanoid taking a book from book shelf, a humanoid brings a bag from a first position to a second position, a robot opening a jar, and a robot putting food in a bowl for a cat to consume.
[00689] FIGS. 173A-I illustrate sample multi-level minimanipulations for a robot to perform measurement, lavage, supplemental oxygen, maintenance of body temperature, catheterization, physiotherapy, hygienic procedures, feeding, sampling for analyses, care of stoma and catheters, care of a wound, and methods of administering drugs.
[00690] FIG. 174 illustrate sample multi-level minimanipulations for a robot to perform intubation, resuscitation/cardiopulmonary resuscitation, replenishment of blood loss, hemostasis, emergency manipulation on trachea, fracture of bone, and wound closure (excluding sutures). A list of sample medical equipment and medical device list is illustrated FIG. 175.
[00691] FIGS. 176A-B illustrate a sample nursery service with minimanipulations. Another sample equipment list is illustrated in FIG. 177.
[00692] FIG. 178 is a block diagram illustrating an example of a computer device, as shown in 3624, on which computer-executable instructions to perform the methodologies discussed herein may be installed and run. As alluded to above, the various computer-based devices discussed in connection with the present disclosure may share similar attributes. Each of the computer devices or computers 16 is capable of executing a set of instructions to cause the computer device to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein. The computer devices 16 may represent any or the entire server, or any network intermediary devices. Further, while only a single machine is illustrated, the term "machine" shall also be taken to include any collection of machines that individually or jointly execute a set (or multiple sets) of instructions to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein. The example computer system 3624 includes a processor 3626 (e.g., a central processing unit (CPU), a graphics processing unit (GPU), or both), a main memory 3628 and a static memory 3630, which communicate with each other via a bus 3632. The computer system 3624 may further include a video display unit 3634 (e.g., a liquid crystal display (LCD)). The computer system 3624 also includes an alphanumeric input device 3636 (e.g., a keyboard), a cursor control device 3638 (e.g., a mouse), a disk drive unit 3640, a signal generation device 3642 (e.g., a speaker), and a network interface device 3648.
[00693] The disk drive unit 3640 includes a machine-readable medium 244 on which is stored one or more sets of instructions (e.g., software 3646) embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The software 3646 may also reside, completely or at least partially, within the main memory 3644 and/or within the processor 3626 during execution thereof the computer system 3624, the main memory 3628, and the instruction-storing portions of processor 3626 constituting machine-readable media. The software 3646 may further be transmitted or received over a network 3650 via the network interface device 3648.
[00694] While the machine-readable medium 3644 is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium, the term "machine-readable medium" should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media (e.g., a centralized or distributed database, and/or associated caches and servers) that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term "machine-readable medium" shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present disclosure. The term "machine-readable medium" shall accordingly be taken to include, but not be limited to, solid- state memories, and optical and magnetic media.
[00695] In general, a robotic control platform comprises one or more robotic sensors; one or more robotic actuators; a mechanical robotic structure including at least a robotic head with mounted sensors on an articulated neck, two robotic arms with actuators and force sensors; an electronic library database, communicatively coupled to the mechanical robotic structure, of minimanipulations, each including a sequence of steps to achieve a predefined functional result, each step comprising a sensing operation or a parameterized actuator operation; and a robotic planning module, communicatively coupled to the mechanical robotic structure and the electronic library database, configured for combining a plurality of minimanipulations to achieve one or more domain-specific applications; a robotic interpreter module, communicatively coupled to the mechanical robotic structure and the electronic library database, configured for reading the minimanipulation steps from the minimanipulation library and converting to a machine code; and a robotic execution module, communicatively coupled to the mechanical robotic structure and the electronic library database, configured for executing the minimanipulation steps by the robotic platform to accomplish a functional result associated with the minimanipulation steps.
[00696] Another generalized aspect provides a humanoid having a robot computer controller operated by robot operating system (ROS) with robotic instructions comprises a database having a plurality of electronic minimanipulation libraries, each electronic minimanipulation library including a plurality of minimanipulation elements, the plurality of electronic minimanipulation libraries can be combined to create one or more machine executable application-specific instruction sets, the plurality of minimanipulation elements within a electronic minimanipulation library can be combined to create one or more machine executable application-specific instruction sets; a robotic structure having an upper body and a lower body connected to a head through an articulated neck, the upper body including torso, shoulder, arms and hands; and a control system, communicatively coupled to the database, a sensory system, a sensor data interpretation system, a motion planner, and actuators and associated controllers, the control system executing application-specific instruction sets to operate the robotic structure.
[00697] A further generalized computer-implemented method for operating a robotic structure through the use of one more controllers, one more sensors, and one more actuators to accomplish one or more tasks comprises providing a database having a plurality of electronic minimanipulation libraries, each electronic minimanipulation library including a plurality of minimanipulation elements, the plurality of electronic minimanipulation libraries can be combined to create one or more machine executable task-specific instruction sets, the plurality of minimanipulation elements within a electronic minimanipulation library can be combined to create one or more machine executable task-specific instruction sets; executing task-specific instruction sets to cause the robotic structure to perform a commanded task, the robotic structure having an upper body connected to a head through an articulated neck, the upper body including torso, shoulder, arms and hands; sending time-indexed high- level commands for position, velocity, force, and torque to the one or more physical portions of the robotic structure; and receiving sensory data from one or more sensors for factoring with the time- indexed high-level commands to generate low-level commands to control the one or more physical portions of the robotic structure.
[00698] Another generalized computer-implemented method for generating and executing a robotic task of a robot comprises generating a plurality minimanipulations in combination with parametric minimanipulation (MM) data sets, each minimanipulation being associated with at least one particular parametric MM data set which defines the required constants, variables and time-sequence profile associated with each minimanipulation; generating a database having a plurality of electronic minimanipulation libraries, the plurality of electronic minimanipulation libraries having MM data sets, MM command sequencing, one or more control libraries, one or more machine-vision libraries, and one or more inter-process communication libraries; executing high-level robotic instructions by a high-level controller for performing a specific robotic task by selecting, grouping and organizing the plurality of electronic minimanipulation libraries from the database thereby generating a task-specific command instruction set, the executing step including decomposing high-level command sequences, associated with the task-specific command instruction set, into one more individual machine-executable command sequences for each actuator of a robot; and executing low-level robotic instructions, by a low-level controller, for executing individual machine-executable command sequences for each actuator of a robot, the individual machine-executable command sequences collectively operating the actuators on the robot to carry out the specific robot task.
[00699] A generalized computer-implemented method for controlling a robotic apparatus, comprises composing one or more minimanipulation behavior data, each minimanipulation behavior data including one or more elementary minimanipulation primitives for building one or more ever-more complex behaviors, each minimanipulation behavior data having a correlated functional result and associated calibration variables for describing and controlling each minimanipulation behavior data; linking one or more behavior data to a physical environment data from one or more databases to generate a linked minimanipulation data, the physical environment data including physical system data, controller data to effect robotic movements, and sensory data for monitoring and controlling the robotic apparatus 75; and converting the linked minimanipulation (high-level) data from the one or more databases to a machine-executable (low-level) instruction code for each actuator (Ai thru An,) controller for each time-period ( thru tm) to send commands to the robot apparatus for executing one or more commanded instructions in a continuous set of nested loops.
[00700] In any of these aspects, the following may be considered. The preparation of the product normally uses ingredients. Executing the instructions typically includes sensing properties of the ingredients used in preparing the product. The product may be a food dish in accordance with a (food) recipe (which may be held in an electronic description) and the person may be a chef. The working equipment may comprise kitchen equipment. These methods may be used in combination with any one or more of the other features described herein. One, more than one, or all of the features of the aspects may be combined, so a feature from one aspect may be combined with another aspect for example. Each aspect may be computer-implemented and there may be provided a computer program configured to perform each method when operated by a computer or processor. Each computer program may be stored on a computer-readable medium. Additionally or alternatively, the programs may be partially or fully hardware-implemented. The aspects may be combined. There may also be provided a robotics system configured to operate in accordance with the method described in respect of any of these aspects. [00701] In another aspect, there may be provided a robotics system, comprising: a multi-modal sensing system capable of observing human motions and generating human motions data in a first instrumented environment; and a processor (which may be a computer), communicatively coupled to the multi-modal sensing system, for recording the human motions data received from the multi-modal sensing system and processing the human motions data to extract motion primitives, preferably such that the motion primitives define operations of a robotics system. The motion primitives may be minimanipulations, as described herein (for example in the immediately preceding paragraphs) and may have a standard format. The motion primitive may define specific types of action and parameters of the type of action, for example a pulling action with a defined starting point, end point, force and grip type. Optionally, there may be further provided a robotics apparatus, communicatively coupled to the processor and/or multi-modal sensing system. The robotics apparatus may be capable of using the motion primitives and/or the human motions data to replicate the observed human motions in a second instrumented environment.
[00702] In a further aspect, there may provided a robotics system, comprising: a processor (which may be a computer), for receiving motion primitives defining operations of a robotics system, the motion primitives being based on human motions data captured from human motions; and a robotics system, communicatively coupled to the processor, capable of using the motion primitives to replicate human motions in an instrumented environment. It will be understood that these aspects may be further combined.
[00703] A further aspect may be found in a robotics system comprising: first and second robotic arms; first and second robotic hands, each hand having a wrist coupled to a respective arm, each hand having a palm and multiple articulated fingers, each articulated finger on the respective hand having at least one sensor; and first and second gloves, each glove covering the respective hand having a plurality of embedded sensors. Preferably, the robotics system is a robotic kitchen system.
[00704] There may further be provided, in a different but related aspect, a motion capture system, comprising: a standardized working environment module, preferably a kitchen; plurality of multi-modal sensors having a first type of sensors configured to be physically coupled to a human and a second type of sensors configured to be spaced away from the human. One or more of the following may be the case: the first type of sensors may be for measuring the posture of human appendages and sensing motion data of the human appendages; the second type of sensors may be for determining a spatial registration of the three-dimensional configurations of one or more of the environment, objects, movements, and locations of human appendages; the second type of sensors may be configured to sense activity data; the standardized working environment may have connectors to interface with the second type of sensors; the first type of sensors and the second type of sensors measure motion data and activity data, and send both the motion data and the activity data to a computer for storage and processing for product (such as food) preparation.
[00705] An aspect may additionally or alternatively be considered in a robotic hand coated with a sensing gloves, comprising: five fingers; and a palm connected to the five fingers, the palm having internal joints and a deformable surface material in three regions; a first deformable region disposed on a radial side of the palm and near the base of the thumb; a second deformable region disposed on a ulnar side of the palm, and spaced apart from the radial side; and a third deformable region disposed on the palm and extend across the base of the fingers. Preferably, the combination of the first deformable region, the second deformable region, the third deformable region, and the internal joints collectively operate to perform a mini manipulation, particularly for food preparation.
[00706] In respect of any of the above system, device or apparatus aspects there may further be provided method aspects comprising steps to carry out the functionality of the system. Additionally or alternatively, optional features may be found based on any one or more of the features described herein with respect to other aspects.
[00707] The present disclosure has been described in particular detail with respect to possible embodiments. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the disclosure may be practiced in other embodiments. The particular naming of the components, capitalization of terms, the attributes, data structures, or any other programming or structural aspect is not mandatory or significant, and the mechanisms that implement the disclosure or its features may have different names, formats, or protocols. The system may be implemented via a combination of hardware and software, as described, or entirely in hardware elements, or entirely in software elements. The particular division of functionality between the various systems components described herein is merely example and not mandatory; functions performed by a single system component may instead be performed by multiple components, and functions performed by multiple components may instead be performed by a single component.
[00708] In various embodiments, the present disclosure can be implemented as a system or a method for performing the above-described techniques, either singly or in any combination. The combination of any specific features described herein is also provided, even if that combination is not explicitly described. In another embodiment, the present disclosure can be implemented as a computer program product comprising a computer-readable storage medium and computer program code, encoded on the medium, for causing a processor in a computing device or other electronic device to perform the above-described techniques.
[00709] As used herein, any reference to "one embodiment" or to "an embodiment" means that a particular feature, structure, or characteristic described in connection with the embodiments is included in at least one embodiment of the disclosure. The appearances of the phrase "in one embodiment" in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.
[00710] Some portions of the above are presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey most effectively the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is generally perceived to be a self-consistent sequence of steps (instructions) leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually, though not necessarily, these quantities take the form of electrical, magnetic or optical signals capable of being stored, transferred, combined, compared, transformed, and otherwise manipulated. It is convenient at times, principally for reasons of common usage, to refer to these signals as bits, values, elements, symbols, characters, terms, numbers, or the like. Furthermore, it is also convenient at times to refer to certain arrangements of steps requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities as modules or code devices, without loss of generality.
[00711] It should be borne in mind, however, that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussion, it is appreciated that, throughout the description, discussions utilizing terms such as "processing" or "computing" or "calculating" or "displaying" or "determining" or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system, or similar electronic computing module and/or device, that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical (electronic) quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage, transmission, or display devices.
[00712] Certain aspects of the present disclosure include process steps and instructions described herein in the form of an algorithm. It should be noted that the process steps and instructions of the present disclosure could be embodied in software, firmware, and/or hardware, and, when embodied in software, it can be downloaded to reside on, and operated from, different platforms used by a variety of operating systems.
[00713] The present disclosure also relates to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes, or it may comprise a general- purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium, such as, but is not limited to, any type of disk including floppy disks, optical disks, CD-ROMs, magnetic-optical disks, readonly memories (ROMs), random access memories (RAMs), EPROMs, EEPROMs, magnetic or optical cards, application specific integrated circuits (ASICs), or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions, and each coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore, the computers and/or other electronic devices referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.
[00714] The algorithms and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer, virtualized system, or other apparatus. Various general-purpose systems may also be used with programs, in accordance with the teachings herein, or the systems may prove convenient to construct more specialized apparatus needed to perform the required method steps. The required structure for a variety of these systems will be apparent from the description provided herein. In addition, the present disclosure is not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the present disclosure as described herein, and any references above to specific languages are provided for disclosure of enablement and best mode of the present disclosure.
[00715] In various embodiments, the present disclosure can be implemented as software, hardware, and/or other elements for controlling a computer system, computing device, or other electronic device, or any combination or plurality thereof. Such an electronic device can include, for example, a processor, an input device (such as a keyboard, mouse, touchpad, trackpad, joystick, trackball, microphone, and/or any combination thereof), an output device (such as a screen, speaker, and/or the like), memory, long- term storage (such as magnetic storage, optical storage, and/or the like), and/or network connectivity, according to techniques that are well known in the art. Such an electronic device may be portable or non-portable. Examples of electronic devices that may be used for implementing the disclosure include a mobile phone, personal digital assistant, smartphone, kiosk, desktop computer, laptop computer, consumer electronic device, television, set-top box, or the like. An electronic device for implementing the present disclosure may use an operating system such as, for example, iOS available from Apple Inc. of Cupertino, Calif., Android available from Google Inc. of Mountain View, Calif., Microsoft Windows 7 available from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond, Wash., webOS available from Palm, Inc. of Sunnyvale, Calif., or any other operating system that is adapted for use on the device. In some embodiments, the electronic device for implementing the present disclosure includes functionality for communication over one or more networks, including for example a cellular telephone network, wireless network, and/or computer network such as the Internet.
[00716] Some embodiments may be described using the expression "coupled" and "connected" along with their derivatives. It should be understood that these terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. For example, some embodiments may be described using the term "connected" to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. In another example, some embodiments may be described using the term "coupled" to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact. The term "coupled," however, may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other, but yet still co-operate or interact with each other. The embodiments are not limited in this context.
[00717] .As used herein, the terms "comprises," "comprising," "includes," "including," "has," "having" or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non-exclusive inclusion. For example, a process, method, article, or apparatus that comprises a list of elements is not necessarily limited to only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process, method, article, or apparatus. Further, unless expressly stated to the contrary, "or" refers to an inclusive or and not to an exclusive or. For example, a condition A or B is satisfied by any one of the following: A is true (or present) and B is false (or not present), A is false (or not present) and B is true (or present), and both A and B are true (or present).
[00718] The terms "a" or "an," as used herein, are defined as one as or more than one. The term "plurality," as used herein, is defined as two or as more than two. The term "another," as used herein, is defined as at least a second or more.
[00719] An ordinary artisan should require no additional explanation in developing the methods and systems described herein but may find some possibly helpful guidance in the preparation of these methods and systems by examining standardized reference works in the relevant art.
[00720] While the disclosure has been described with respect to a limited number of embodiments, those skilled in the art, having benefit of the above description, will appreciate that other embodiments may be devised which do not depart from the scope of the present disclosure as described herein. It should be noted that the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes, and may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. The terms used should not be construed to limit the disclosure to the specific embodiments disclosed in the specification and the claims, but the terms should be construed to include all methods and systems that operate under the claims set forth herein below. Accordingly, the disclosure is not limited by the disclosure, but instead its scope is to be determined entirely by the following claims.
Claims
Hide Dependent 
CLAIMS What is claimed and desired to be secured by Letters Patent of the United States is:
1. A robotic control platform, comprising:
one or more robotic sensors;
one or more robotic actuators;
a mechanical robotic structure including at least a robotic head with mounted sensors on an articulated neck, two robotic arms with actuators and force sensors;
an electronic library database, communicatively coupled to the mechanical robotic structure, of minimanipulations, each including a sequence of steps to achieve a predefined functional result, each step comprising a sensing operation or a parameterized actuator operation;
a robotic planning module, communicatively coupled to the mechanical robotic structure and the electronic library database, configured for combining a plurality of minimanipulations to achieve one or more domain-specific applications;
a robotic interpreter module, communicatively coupled to the mechanical robotic structure and the electronic library database, configured for reading the minimanipulation steps from the minimanipulation library and converting to a machine code; and
a robotic execution module, communicatively coupled to the mechanical robotic structure and the electronic library database, configured for executing the minimanipulation steps by the robotic platform to accomplish a functional result associated with the minimanipulation steps.
2. The robotic control platform of claim 1, wherein each minimanipulation includes of a set of preconditions necessary to execute correctly the minimanipulation steps and a set of postconditions that are the functional result of executing all the steps in the corresponding minimanipulation.
3. The robotic control platform of claim 1, wherein the minimanipulations have been designed and tested to perform within a threshold of optimal performance in achieving the functional result, the optimal performance being task-specific, but defaulting to 1% of optimal when not otherwise specified for each given domain-specific application.
4. The robotic control platform of claim 1, wherein the mechanical robotic structure comprises a processor for controlling the one or more robotic sensors and the one more actuators.
5. The robotic control platform of claim 1, further comprising a robotic learning module, communicatively coupled to the mechanical robotic structure and the electronic library database, wherein the one or more robotic sensors record the actions of a human and the module in the humanoid robotic platform uses the recorded sequence of human actions to learn a new minimanipulation executable by the robotic platform in order to obtain the same functional result as observed and recorded from the human.
6. The robotic control platform of claim 5, wherein the robotic learning module estimates the probability of obtaining the functional result if the preconditions of the minimanipulation are matched by the execution module and the parameter values of the minimanipulation are within the specified range.
7. The robotic control platform of claim 1, further comprising a human robot interface mechanism to enable the human to refine the learned minimanipulation by specifying and transmitting ranges of values for the parameters of the minimanipulation and specifying the preconditions for the minimanipulation to the robotic platform via the human-robot interface mechanism.
8. The robotic control platform in claim 1, wherein the robotic planning module calculates similarity to previously stored plans and uses case-based reasoning to formulate a new plan based on modifying and augmenting one or more previously stored plans used to obtain similar results, the newly formulated plan including a sequence of minimanipulations to be stored in an electronic plan library.
9. A humanoid having a robot computer controller operated by robot operating system (ROS) with robotic instructions, comprising:
a database having a plurality of electronic minimanipulation libraries, each electronic minimanipulation library including a plurality of minimanipulation elements, the plurality of electronic minimanipulation libraries can be combined to create one or more machine executable application- specific instruction sets, the plurality of minimanipulation elements within a electronic minimanipulation library can be combined to create one or more machine executable application- specific instruction sets;
. a robotic structure having an upper body and a lower body connected to a head through an articulated neck, the upper body including torso, shoulder, arms and hands; and
a control system, communicatively coupled to the database, a sensory system, a sensor data interpretation system, a motion planner, and actuators and associated controllers, the control system executing application-specific instruction sets to operate the robotic structure.
10. The humanoid of claim 9, wherein the robotic structure comprises an additional lower body, the lower body including a pair of articulated legs connected to the torso and a pair of feet connected to the articulated legs.
11. The humanoid of claim 9, wherein each minimanipulation in the plurality of electronic minimanipulation libraries comprises one or more datasets having a plurality of variables and software algorithms for controlling a robotic control function, the plurality of variables and software algorithms consisting from the group of time, position, velocity, force, and torque.
12. The humanoid of claim 10, wherein each minimanipulation comprises further execution of a set of preconditions necessary to execute the minimanipulation and a set of postconditions that are the functional result of executing the minimanipulation.
13. A computer-implemented method for operating a robotic structure through the use of one more controllers, one more sensors, and one more actuators to accomplish one or more tasks, comprising:
providing a database having a plurality of electronic minimanipulation libraries, each electronic minimanipulation library including a plurality of minimanipulation elements, the plurality of electronic minimanipulation libraries can be combined to create one or more machine executable task-specific instruction sets, the plurality of minimanipulation elements within an electronic minimanipulation library can be combined to create one or more machine executable task-specific instruction sets; executing task-specific instruction sets to cause the robotic structure to perform a commanded task, the robotic structure having an upper body connected to a head through an articulated neck, the upper body including torso, shoulder, arms and hands;
sending time-indexed high-level commands for position, velocity, force, and torque to the one or more physical portions of the robotic structure; and
receiving sensory data from one or more sensors for factoring with the time-indexed high-level commands to generate low-level commands to control the one or more physical portions of the robotic structure.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the robotic structure comprises an additional lower body, the lower body including a pair of articulated legs connected to the torso and a pair of feet connected to the articulated legs.
15. A computer-implemented method for generating and executing a robotic task of a robot, comprising:
generating a plurality minimanipulations in combination with parametric minimanipulation data sets, each minimanipulation being associated with at least one particular parametric minimanipulation data set, which defines the required constants, variables, and time-sequence profile associated with each minimanipulation;
generating a database having a plurality of electronic minimanipulation libraries, the plurality of electronic minimanipulation libraries having minimanipulation data sets, minimanipulation command sequencing, one or more control libraries, one or more machine-vision libraries, and one or more interprocess communication libraries;
executing high-level robotic instructions by a high-level controller for performing a specific robotic task by selecting, grouping and organizing the plurality of electronic minimanipulation libraries from the database thereby generating a task-specific command instruction set, the executing step including decomposing high-level command sequences, associated with the task-specific command instruction set, into one more individual machine-executable command sequences for each actuator of a robot; and
executing low-level robotic instructions, by a low-level controller, for executing individual machine-executable command sequences for each actuator of a robot, the individual machine- executable command sequences collectively operating the actuators on the robot to carry out the specific robot task.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein executing each minimanipulation comprises further execution of verifying that a set of preconditions necessary to execute the minimanipulation are satisfied, and upon execution resulting in a set of postconditions being accomplished that are the functional result of executing the minimanipulation.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein the minimanipulations are learned by a learning module in a humanoid robotic platform based on one or more observations of a human executing the behavior required to perform the same minimanipulation and obtain the same functional result.
18. The method in claim 17, further comprising a refining step of the learned minimanipulation by specifying ranges of values for the parameter for the parameters of the minimanipulation and specifying a plurality of preconditions for the minimanipulation.
19. The method of claim 17, further comprising estimating the probability of obtaining the functional result if the preconditions are met, and the parameter values are in the specified range.
20. The method in claim 17, further comprising formulating a plan using case-based reasoning based on modifying and augmenting one or more previously stored plans used to obtain similar results, the newly formulated plan including a sequence of minimanipulations.
21. A computer-implemented method for controlling a robotic apparatus, comprising:
composing one or more minimanipulation behavior data, each minimanipulation behavior data including one or more elementary minimanipulation primitives for building one or more ever-more complex behaviors, each minimanipulation behavior data having a correlated functional result and associated calibration variables for describing and controlling each minimanipulation behavior data; linking one or more behavior data to a physical environment data from one or more databases to generate a linked minimanipulation data, the physical environment data including physical system data, controller data to effect robotic movements, and sensory data for monitoring and controlling the robotic apparatus; and
converting the linked minimanipulation (high-level) data from the one or more databases to a machine-executable (low-level) instruction code for each actuator (Aa thru An;) controller for each time- period (tj thru tm) to send commands to the robot apparatus for executing one or more commanded instructions in a continuous set of nested loops.
22. The method of claim 21, prior to the composing step, further comprising creating
one or more minimanipulations and encoding each manipulation for storing in an electronic
minimanipulation library.
23. The method of claim 21, wherein the physical system data comprises robot parameters and environmental geometry data.
24. The method of claim 21, wherein the controlling data comprises command types and gains data.
25. The method of claim 21, wherein the sensor data comprises vision data, and dynamic/static measures data, and software-look execution related processes data, including communications data and error-handling data.
26. The method of claim 21, wherein each actuator (Aa thru An) controller executes a control loop in position/velocity and/or force/torque for each time-period (ti thru tm).

CN121696965A：

权利要求
1.一种多模态感知与阶段条件的机器人模仿学习方法，其特征在于，包括：
采集视觉传感器的图像数据、分布式触觉传感器的触觉数据、末端六维力传感器的力觉数据和本体感知传感器的状态数据，对所述图像数据、所述触觉数据、所述力觉数据和所述状态数据分别进行预处理并映射至隐藏空间，以得到视觉特征、触觉特征、力觉特征和本体感知特征；
定义任务阶段并生成阶段标签，结合所述图像数据、所述触觉数据、所述力觉数据和所述状态数据进行阶段边界检测，将检测到的所述阶段标签编码为阶段嵌入向量；
构建多模态融合纯解码器Transformer架构，将所述阶段嵌入向量、所述触觉特征、所述力觉特征、所述本体感知特征和所述视觉特征拼接形成多模态条件序列，通过自注意力机制实现跨模态特征融合，输出预测动作序列；
设计综合损失函数，所述综合损失函数包括动作预测损失、时序特征一致性损失和阶段一致性损失；
通过遥操作系统采集演示数据，对所述演示数据进行时序对齐和数据增强处理，划分为固定长度的训练样本；
采用渐进式训练策略，基于所述训练样本和所述综合损失函数对所述多模态融合纯解码器Transformer架构进行模型训练，从单阶段任务逐步扩展至完整任务；
实时推理：依次进行阶段检测和多模态数据预处理，利用训练后的所述多模态融合纯解码器Transformer架构进行模型推理，并对推理结果进行时序集成和安全检查，输出控制指令。
2.根据权利要求1所述的多模态感知与阶段条件的机器人模仿学习方法，其特征在于，所述触觉数据的预处理包括：
将所述触觉数据展平为一维向量，其中表示展平后的原始触觉向量，表示实数集，为传感单元数量，3表示接触压力、接近距离和振动加速度三个通道；
通过线性投影层将所述一维向量映射到隐藏维度：
，其中表示映射后的触觉嵌入向量，表示线性变换操作，为隐藏层的维度大小；
添加位置编码标识不同身体部位的传感器：
，其中表示身体部位位置编码向量，表示位置编码函数，为身体部位标识ID；
最终得到所述触觉特征为：，其中表示添加位置信息后的最终触觉特征向量。
3.根据权利要求1所述的多模态感知与阶段条件的机器人模仿学习方法，其特征在于，所述力觉数据的预处理包括：
记录无负载状态下的基线值和，对实时采集的所述力觉数据做去偏处理：
，，其中和分别为去偏后的左臂和右臂力信号，和分别为左臂和右臂的原始六维力信号，和分别为去偏后的左臂和右臂力信号；
采用滤波降低噪声：
，其中为当前时刻滤波后的力信号，为上一时刻滤波后的力信号，为滤波系数，，可根据末端重量选择；
设定力的最大量程和力矩的最大量程，进行归一化处理得到归一化力向量：
；
其中表示归一化后的六维力向量，为三轴力分量，为三轴力矩分量。
4.根据权利要求3所述的多模态感知与阶段条件的机器人模仿学习方法，其特征在于，所述力觉数据的预处理还包括：
通过线性变换将归一化后的所述力觉数据映射至Transformer隐藏空间：
，其中表示力觉嵌入向量，为线性变换层，为隐藏维度；
添加腕部位置信息的位置编码：
，其中表示最终的力觉特征向量，为左臂或右臂的位置编码向量，得到所述力觉特征。
5.根据权利要求1所述的多模态感知与阶段条件的机器人模仿学习方法，其特征在于，所述阶段边界检测包括：
定义阶段转换检测函数：
，其中表示预测的下一时刻阶段标签，表示阶段转换检测函数，为所述图像数据，为所述触觉数据，为所述力觉数据，为所述状态数据，为当前时刻的所述阶段标签，为下一时刻的阶段标签；
基于所述触觉数据进行接触事件检测：
当所述触觉数据对应的触觉向量的L1范数大于进入接触阈值且当前为非接触状态时，接触状态变量置为1；
当所述L1范数小于释放阈值且当前为接触状态时，所述接触状态变量置为0；
基于所述力觉数据进行突变检测：
计算力矩变化量，其中表示力矩变化量，为当前时刻关节力矩，为上一时刻关节力矩；
基于所述图像数据进行目标检测：
，其中为目标检测算法，为检测结果；
基于所述状态数据进行运动状态检测：
，其中表示运动状态标志，表示欧几里得范数，为运动判定阈值。
6.根据权利要求1所述的多模态感知与阶段条件的机器人模仿学习方法，其特征在于，所述视觉特征的提取包括：
使用ResNet18作为骨干网络提取所述图像数据的特征：
，其中表示提取的原始图像特征，表示输入图像数据，为批次大小，512为特征通道数，和为特征图的高度和宽度；
通过1×1卷积将提取的所述特征投影到隐藏维度：
，其中表示投影后的视觉特征，为隐藏维度；
将投影后的所述特征展平：
，其中表示展平后的视觉特征序列，为展平操作，为视觉token数量，；
对于多相机输入，将各相机特征在空间维度拼接：
；
其中表示拼接后的多视角视觉特征，为拼接操作，分别为头部、左手腕、右手腕相机的视觉特征。
7.根据权利要求1所述的多模态感知与阶段条件的机器人模仿学习方法，其特征在于，所述多模态融合纯解码器Transformer架构的处理包括：
构建所述多模态条件序列：
，其中表示多模态条件序列，为所述阶段嵌入向量，为所述触觉特征，为所述力觉特征，为所述本体感知特征，为所述视觉特征；
将所述阶段嵌入向量放在所述多模态条件序列的最前端，使其在自注意力机制中具有最高优先级；
定义个可学习的动作查询向量：
，其中表示动作查询向量序列，为可学习参数矩阵，为预测的动作步数；
使用正弦位置编码为所述多模态条件序列中的每个token添加位置信息：
，
；
其中表示位置编码函数，为位置索引，为维度索引；
将所述多模态条件序列和所述动作查询向量拼接并添加位置编码：；
其中表示所述模型训练的最终输入序列。
8.根据权利要求7所述的多模态感知与阶段条件的机器人模仿学习方法，其特征在于，所述多模态融合纯解码器Transformer架构的自注意力机制包括：
多头自注意力计算：
，其中表示多头自注意力输出，为注意力头数，为输出投影矩阵；
每个注意力头的计算为：
，其中表示第个注意力头的输出，、和分别为查询、键和值的投影矩阵；
注意力函数为：
；
其中表示缩放点积注意力函数，分别为查询、键、值矩阵，为每个头的维度，，为归一化指数函数；
每个Transformer层包含多头自注意力和前馈网络：
，
；
其中表示第层的输入，表示中间特征，表示第层的输出，为层归一化操作；
前馈网络为：
，其中表示前馈网络函数，为激活函数，为前馈网络的权重和偏置参数。
9.根据权利要求1所述的多模态感知与阶段条件的机器人模仿学习方法，其特征在于，所述综合损失函数的计算包括：
总损失函数为：
，其中表示总损失值，为特征损失权重，为阶段损失权重；
动作预测L1损失为：
，其中表示动作预测损失，为批次大小，为chunk大小，和分别为所述预测动作序列中的预测动作与真实动作，为指示函数，为有效样本数；
时序特征一致性损失为：
；
其中表示时序特征一致性损失，为当前时刻Transformer输出的所述视觉特征，为未来时刻的真实视觉特征。
10.根据权利要求9所述的多模态感知与阶段条件的机器人模仿学习方法，其特征在于，所述综合损失函数中阶段一致性损失的计算包括：
阶段一致性损失为：
，其中表示阶段一致性损失，为所述预测动作序列的平均向量，，为样本的所述阶段标签，为阶段的原型动作向量，表示L2范数；
所述原型动作向量的计算为：
，其中表示阶段的原型动作向量，为所有属于阶段的动作样本集合，为样本、时间步的真实专家动作，为阶段的动作样本数。
说明书
一种多模态感知与阶段条件的机器人模仿学习方法
技术领域
本发明涉及农业化工自动化和智能机器人技术领域，具体涉及一种多模态感知与阶段条件的机器人模仿学习方法。
背景技术
农业农业化工生产涉及大量精细操作任务，包括化学试剂配制、实验器皿清洗、危险品搬运、生产设备维护等。这些任务具有以下特点和挑战。
在多模态感知需求方面，视觉信息不足是主要问题之一。在试剂调配、烧杯清洗等任务中，仅依靠视觉难以判断液体粘度、容器表面清洁度、物体重量等信息。接触力控制困难也是重要挑战，玻璃器皿易碎、化学试剂瓶需要精确的抓取力度，力度过大会损坏容器，力度过小会导致滑落。环境感知受限同样不可忽视，化工环境中存在粉尘、蒸汽、反光等干扰因素，单一视觉传感器可靠性差。现有模仿学习算法如ACT、HIT等主要依赖视觉和本体感知，缺乏触觉反馈，无法感知接触力、物体材质、表面纹理等信息，导致在精细操作中成功率低、鲁棒性差。
在长时序任务规划方面，任务周期长是显著特点。试剂调配流程包括取瓶、开盖、倾倒、盖盖、放回，整个过程可达40至70秒，远超常规抓取任务。阶段转换模糊也是重要问题，在部分可观测环境下，视觉观测相似但实际状态不同，导致模式崩溃。时序依赖强要求必须严格按照顺序执行，错误的动作顺序会导致任务失败甚至安全事故。传统模仿学习方法在长时序任务中容易出现动作混淆、顺序错乱、中间阶段失败无法恢复等问题，成功率随任务长度指数下降。
在安全性要求方面，化学品危险性不容忽视，农药、化肥、溶剂等具有腐蚀性、毒性、易燃性，操作失误可能导致泄漏、爆炸等事故。设备精密性要求也很高，实验仪器、生产设备价值高，碰撞或操作不当会造成重大损失。人员安全同样重要，机器人需要与人类操作员协作，必须避免意外碰撞和伤害。现有方法缺乏对任务阶段的显式建模，无法在检测到异常时及时中止或回退到安全状态，也难以通过人工干预进行阶段引导。
在环境适应性方面，物品多样性是主要挑战，试剂瓶规格、材质、重量差异大，容量从50ml到5L不等，材质包括玻璃和塑料，重量从0.1kg到10kg不等。位置随机性也增加了难度，仓库货架、实验台面物品摆放位置不固定。光照变化同样影响性能，实验室、仓库、生产车间光照条件差异大。单一模态输入泛化能力弱，对未见过的物品、位置、光照条件鲁棒性差，需要大量数据重新训练。
因此，亟需一种融合多模态感知、具备阶段条件控制能力、安全可靠的农业化工机器人操作方法。
发明内容
本发明旨在至少解决现有技术中存在的技术问题之一，提供一种多模态感知与阶段条件的机器人模仿学习方法。
为实现上述目的，本发明提供一种多模态感知与阶段条件的机器人模仿学习方法，包括：
采集视觉传感器的图像数据、分布式触觉传感器的触觉数据、末端六维力传感器的力觉数据和本体感知传感器的状态数据，对所述图像数据、所述触觉数据、所述力觉数据和所述状态数据分别进行预处理并映射至隐藏空间，以得到视觉特征、触觉特征、力觉特征和本体感知特征；
定义任务阶段并生成阶段标签，结合所述图像数据、所述触觉数据、所述力觉数据和所述状态数据进行阶段边界检测，将检测到的所述阶段标签编码为阶段嵌入向量；
构建多模态融合纯解码器Transformer架构，将所述阶段嵌入向量、所述触觉特征、所述力觉特征、所述本体感知特征和所述视觉特征拼接形成多模态条件序列，通过自注意力机制实现跨模态特征融合，输出预测动作序列；
设计综合损失函数，所述综合损失函数包括动作预测损失、时序特征一致性损失和阶段一致性损失；
通过遥操作系统采集演示数据，对所述演示数据进行时序对齐和数据增强处理，划分为固定长度的训练样本；
采用渐进式训练策略，基于所述训练样本和所述综合损失函数对所述多模态融合纯解码器Transformer架构进行模型训练，从单阶段任务逐步扩展至完整任务；
实时推理：依次进行阶段检测和多模态数据预处理，利用训练后的所述多模态融合纯解码器Transformer架构进行模型推理，并对推理结果进行时序集成和安全检查，输出控制指令。
进一步地，所述触觉数据的预处理包括：
将所述触觉数据展平为一维向量，其中表示展平后的原始触觉向量，表示实数集，为传感单元数量，3表示接触压力、接近距离和振动加速度三个通道；
通过线性投影层将所述一维向量映射到隐藏维度：
，其中表示映射后的触觉嵌入向量，表示线性变换操作，为隐藏层的维度大小；
添加位置编码标识不同身体部位的传感器：
，其中表示身体部位位置编码向量，表示位置编码函数，为身体部位标识ID；
最终得到所述触觉特征为：，其中表示添加位置信息后的最终触觉特征向量。
进一步地，所述力觉数据的预处理包括：
记录无负载状态下的基线值和，对实时采集的所述力觉数据做去偏处理：
，，其中和分别为去偏后的左臂和右臂力信号，和分别为左臂和右臂的原始六维力信号，和分别为去偏后的左臂和右臂力信号；
采用滤波降低噪声：
，其中为当前时刻滤波后的力信号，为上一时刻滤波后的力信号，为滤波系数，，可根据末端重量选择；
设定力的最大量程和力矩的最大量程，进行归一化处理得到归一化力向量：
；
其中表示归一化后的六维力向量，为三轴力分量，为三轴力矩分量。
进一步地，所述力觉数据的预处理还包括：
通过线性变换将归一化后的所述力觉数据映射至Transformer隐藏空间：
，其中表示力觉嵌入向量，为线性变换层，为隐藏维度；
添加腕部位置信息的位置编码：
，其中表示最终的力觉特征向量，为左臂或右臂的位置编码向量，得到所述力觉特征。
进一步地，所述阶段边界检测包括：
定义阶段转换检测函数：
，其中表示预测的下一时刻阶段标签，表示阶段转换检测函数，为所述图像数据，为所述触觉数据，为所述力觉数据，为所述状态数据，为当前时刻的所述阶段标签，为下一时刻的阶段标签；
基于所述触觉数据进行接触事件检测：
当所述触觉数据对应的触觉向量的L1范数大于进入接触阈值且当前为非接触状态时，接触状态变量置为1；
当所述L1范数小于释放阈值且当前为接触状态时，所述接触状态变量置为0；
基于所述力觉数据进行突变检测：
计算力矩变化量，其中表示力矩变化量，为当前时刻关节力矩，为上一时刻关节力矩；
基于所述图像数据进行目标检测：
，其中为目标检测算法，为检测结果；
基于所述状态数据进行运动状态检测：
，其中表示运动状态标志，表示欧几里得范数，为运动判定阈值。
进一步地，所述视觉特征的提取包括：
使用ResNet18作为骨干网络提取所述图像数据的特征：
，其中表示提取的原始图像特征，表示输入图像数据，为批次大小，512为特征通道数，和为特征图的高度和宽度；
通过1×1卷积将提取的所述特征投影到隐藏维度：
，其中表示投影后的视觉特征，为隐藏维度；
将投影后的所述特征展平：
，其中表示展平后的视觉特征序列，为展平操作，为视觉token数量，；
对于多相机输入，将各相机特征在空间维度拼接：
；
其中表示拼接后的多视角视觉特征，为拼接操作，分别为头部、左手腕、右手腕相机的视觉特征。
进一步地，所述多模态融合纯解码器Transformer架构的处理包括：
构建所述多模态条件序列：
，其中表示多模态条件序列，为所述阶段嵌入向量，为所述触觉特征，为所述力觉特征，为所述本体感知特征，为所述视觉特征；
将所述阶段嵌入向量放在所述多模态条件序列的最前端，使其在自注意力机制中具有最高优先级；
定义个可学习的动作查询向量：
，其中表示动作查询向量序列，为可学习参数矩阵，为预测的动作步数；
使用正弦位置编码为所述多模态条件序列中的每个token添加位置信息：
，
；
其中表示位置编码函数，为位置索引，为维度索引；
将所述多模态条件序列和所述动作查询向量拼接并添加位置编码：；
其中表示所述模型训练的最终输入序列。
进一步地，所述多模态融合纯解码器Transformer架构的自注意力机制包括：
多头自注意力计算：
，其中表示多头自注意力输出，为注意力头数，为输出投影矩阵；
每个注意力头的计算为：
，其中表示第个注意力头的输出，、和分别为查询、键和值的投影矩阵；
注意力函数为：
；
其中表示缩放点积注意力函数，分别为查询、键、值矩阵，为每个头的维度，，为归一化指数函数；
每个Transformer层包含多头自注意力和前馈网络：
，
；
其中表示第层的输入，表示中间特征，表示第层的输出，为层归一化操作；
前馈网络为：
，其中表示前馈网络函数，为激活函数，为前馈网络的权重和偏置参数。
进一步地，所述综合损失函数的计算包括：
总损失函数为：
，其中表示总损失值，为特征损失权重，为阶段损失权重；
动作预测L1损失为：
，其中表示动作预测损失，为批次大小，为chunk大小，和分别为所述预测动作序列中的预测动作与真实动作，为指示函数，为有效样本数；
时序特征一致性损失为：
；
其中表示时序特征一致性损失，为当前时刻Transformer输出的所述视觉特征，为未来时刻的真实视觉特征。
进一步地，所述综合损失函数中阶段一致性损失的计算包括：
阶段一致性损失为：
，其中表示阶段一致性损失，为所述预测动作序列的平均向量，，为样本的所述阶段标签，为阶段的原型动作向量，表示L2范数；
所述原型动作向量的计算为：
，其中表示阶段的原型动作向量，为所有属于阶段的动作样本集合，为样本、时间步的真实专家动作，为阶段的动作样本数。
本发明的有益效果如下：
本发明通过引入触觉模态和力觉模态，在试剂瓶抓取任务中，触觉反馈使抓取成功率从68%提升至94%，在易碎物品搬运中，触觉力控制使破损率从15%降低至2%。
本发明通过阶段条件控制，在30秒以上的长时序任务中，使成功率从42%提升至87%，阶段转换准确率达95%，任务执行时间缩短20%。
本发明采用纯解码器架构，相比传统CVAE架构，参数量减少15%至20%，推理速度提升35%，训练稳定性显著提高。
本发明每个任务仅需100至150个演示即可达到高性能，相比现有方法数据需求减少50%以上，阶段条件使数据利用率提升3倍。
本发明支持人工干预和阶段切换，在危险化学品操作中，人工确认阶段使事故率降低90%，触觉安全监控的响应时间小于50ms。
本发明实时推理频率达30Hz，单次推理延迟小于30ms，满足机器人实时控制需求。
附图说明
图1为本发明多模态感知与阶段条件的机器人模仿学习方法的流程图；
图2为本发明分布式触觉传感器布置示意图；
图3为本发明多模态融合纯解码器Transformer架构示意图。
具体实施方式
为了使本申请的目的、技术方案和有益效果更加清晰明白，以下结合附图和具体实施方式，对本申请进行进一步详细说明。应当理解的是，本说明书中描述的具体实施方式仅仅是为了解释本申请，并不是为了限定本申请。
本发明的多模态感知与阶段条件的机器人模仿学习方法基于控制系统实现。控制系统包括多模态感知层、阶段条件层、模型训练层和推理部署层。多模态感知层负责从视觉传感器、触觉传感器、六维力传感器和本体感知传感器采集多源数据，通过数据预处理和特征提取形成统一的多模态特征表示。阶段条件层负责定义任务阶段、进行阶段边界检测和阶段标注，将阶段信息编码为可学习的嵌入向量。模型训练层采用多模态融合纯解码器Transformer架构，通过综合损失函数和渐进式训练策略进行模型优化。推理部署层在实时推理阶段进行阶段检测、数据预处理、模型推理、时序集成和安全检查，输出机器人控制指令。
实施例一
本实施例以农化实验室试剂调配任务为应用场景。在农化实验室中，机器人需要从试剂柜中取出指定的化学试剂，按照配方要求倾倒到烧杯中，完成混合配制。
机器人平台采用人形机器人，身高178cm，双臂各7自由度，双手各2指夹爪。移动底盘采用全向轮设计，最大速度1.5m/s。传感器配置包括：头部RGB-D相机，型号为IntelRealSense D455，分辨率640×480，帧率30fps，用于全局场景感知；双手腕RGB相机，型号为Intel RealSense D405，分辨率640×480，帧率30fps，用于精细操作引导；分布式触觉传感器，共85个单元，覆盖双手、双臂、胸部区域；末端六维力传感器，测量三轴方向上的力、、及力矩、、；IMU为6轴姿态传感器；关节编码器提供位置、速度、力矩反馈。
工作环境包括：试剂柜为3层货架，每层放置5至8个试剂瓶；试剂瓶规格为100ml至1L，玻璃材质，带螺旋盖；工作台放置烧杯、搅拌器等实验器材；光照为实验室日光灯，照度500至800lux。
参阅图1，本实施例的控制方法包括以下步骤。
步骤S1：多模态传感器数据采集与预处理。
视觉数据采集：头部相机采集分辨率640×480的RGB-D图像，视场角87°×58°×95°；手腕相机采集分辨率640×480的RGB图像，视场角86°×57°×90°。图像预处理包括解压缩、尺寸归一化、BGR到RGB转换。使用ResNet18作为骨干网络提取视觉特征：，其中为批次大小，512为特征通道数，和为特征图的高度和宽度。通过1×1卷积将图像特征投影到隐藏维度：，其中为隐藏维度，设置为512。将投影后的特征展平：，其中为视觉token数量。对于多相机输入，将各相机特征在空间维度拼接：，其中分别为头部、左手腕、右手腕相机的视觉特征。
触觉数据采集：电容式触觉传感器阵列布置于机器人夹爪、前臂、上臂、胸部等接触区域。传感器规格为每个传感单元尺寸10至20mm，测量范围0至50N，分辨率0.1N。传感器数量为全身布置50至100个传感单元，形成分布式触觉皮肤。测量参数包括接触压力强度范围0至50N、接近距离范围0至20mm用于预接触感知、接触面积通过多单元激活模式计算、振动加速度用于检测滑动和碰撞。布置策略为：平行夹爪区域每只夹爪6个传感器，内侧夹持面2个单元、前端接触面2个单元、外侧保护面2个单元；腕部区域每侧4个传感器，上侧保护面2个单元、下侧接触面2个单元；前臂区域每侧8个传感器，内侧接触面6个单元、外侧保护面2个单元；上臂区域每侧12个传感器，内侧接触面8个单元、外侧保护面4个单元；胸部区域25个传感器，前胸接触面17个单元、侧胸保护面8个单元。
触觉数据预处理：将分布式触觉数据展平为一维向量，为传感单元数量，3表示接触压力、接近距离和振动加速度三个通道。通过线性投影层将触觉向量映射到隐藏维度：，其中为隐藏维度。添加位置编码标识不同身体部位的传感器：。最终触觉特征为：。
六维力数据采集：
左臂末端六维力为，右臂末端六维力为。
六维力数据预处理：在每次任务开始前，记录无负载状态下的基线值和，计算公式为，，其中和分别为左臂和右臂的原始六维力信号。实时力信号做去偏处理：，，用于消除传感器长期漂移与安装误差。六维力信号受电机振动、结构共振影响较大，采用低通或卡尔曼滤波降低噪声：，其中，可根据末端重量选择。统一量纲，提升模型训练稳定性，设定最大量程：力，力矩。归一化为：。通过线性变换将六维力映射至Transformer隐藏空间：。并添加腕部位置信息的位置编码：，其中为左臂或右臂的位置编码。
本体感知数据采集：关节位置，包括手臂、夹爪、腰部、颈部关节；关节速度；关节力矩，用于接触检测和阶段标注；IMU数据包括姿态角roll、pitch、yaw、角速度、线加速度。
状态向量构建为：

。
步骤S2：任务阶段定义与标注。
任务描述：从货架取出试剂瓶，打开瓶盖，按照配方倾倒指定量的试剂到烧杯中，盖上瓶盖，放回货架。
阶段划分包括7个阶段。
阶段S1为搜索定位，动作为转动腰部、移动头部，搜索目标试剂瓶，结束条件为目标物体进入视野中心且距离小于1m，持续时间2至5秒，传感器为视觉和IMU。
阶段S2为接近抓取，动作为伸出手臂，调整手指姿态，接近并抓取试剂瓶，结束条件为触觉传感器检测到稳定接触力5至15N，持续时间6至9秒，传感器为视觉、触觉、力矩。
阶段S3为开盖操作，动作为双手协作，一手固定瓶身，另一手旋转瓶盖，结束条件为力矩突变即瓶盖脱离且触觉压力下降，持续时间3至6秒，传感器为触觉、力矩。
阶段S4为倾倒试剂，动作为倾斜试剂瓶，控制倾倒速度和角度，结束条件为倾倒量达到目标值，持续时间6至10秒，传感器为视觉、力矩、触觉。
阶段S5为盖盖操作，动作为对准瓶口，旋转盖紧瓶盖，结束条件为力矩达到阈值即瓶盖拧紧，持续时间3至5秒，传感器为触觉、力矩。
阶段S6为放回归位，动作为将试剂瓶放回货架指定位置，结束条件为触觉压力释放且手臂回到初始姿态，持续时间3至6秒，传感器为视觉、触觉。
阶段S7为任务完成，动作为手臂回到休息姿态并停止运动，持续时间2至3秒。
自动标注策略：结合多模态传感器数据进行阶段边界检测，定义阶段转换检测函数：，其中为视觉观测，为触觉向量，为六维力数据，为本体状态，为当前阶段标签。
检测规则包括：基于触觉的接触事件检测，当触觉向量的L1范数大于进入接触阈值且当前接触状态变量时，；当触觉向量的L1范数小于释放阈值且当前接触状态变量时，；否则。其中为t时刻的触觉向量，为进入接触的阈值，为释放的阈值，为接触状态变量。力矩突变检测用于开盖和盖盖：。视觉目标检测用于物体进入或离开视野：。运动状态检测用于判断静止或运动：。
阶段转换规则：当且ObjDetected为真时，当且Contact为真时，；当且CapRemoved为真时，；其他情况。
人工标注辅助：在遥操作演示时，操作员通过按键标记阶段转换点；后处理时，结合传感器数据可视化进行精细调整；使用图形界面显示关节位置、力矩、触觉热图，辅助标注。
阶段表示：采用One-hot编码，为阶段总数；嵌入向量，为隐藏维度。
步骤S3：多模态融合纯解码器Transformer架构构建。
本发明的核心在于设计了融合触觉模态和阶段条件的层次化纯解码器Transformer架构。
模型结构基于纯解码器架构。与传统ACT算法采用的CVAE框架不同，本发明借鉴HIT算法的设计思想，去除编码器和潜在变量采样模块，采用纯解码器架构，具有以下优势：参数量减少15%至20%，推理速度提升35%；训练稳定性提高，无需调节KL散度权重；模型结构简洁，易于部署和维护。
输入输出定义：输入包括视觉观测，C个相机；触觉数据，包括压力、接近、振动；末端六维力；本体状态；阶段标签。输出为动作序列，H为chunk大小。
两大核心模块：多模态特征提取模块包括视觉特征提取使用ResNet18骨干网络、触觉特征提取采用线性投影加身体部位位置编码、力觉特征提取采用线性投影加末端位置编码、本体特征提取采用线性投影加关节位置编码、阶段特征提取采用可学习嵌入层；层次化Transformer解码器的输入为多模态条件token序列，输出为未来H步的动作序列，机制为自注意力机制实现跨模态特征融合。
多模态特征提取详细设计：视觉特征提取使用ResNet18作为骨干网络提取图像特征：
，，，其中B为批次大小，为隐藏维度通常为512，为视觉token数量。对于多相机输入，将各相机特征在空间维度拼接：。
触觉特征提取：将分布式触觉传感器数据展平并投影：，，其中为触觉投影层的权重和偏置。添加身体部位位置编码：，其中为可学习的身体部位嵌入矩阵。
末端六维力特征提取：，其中为力觉投影层的权重和偏置。本体感知特征提取：，其中为本体投影层的权重和偏置。阶段条件特征提取：，其中为可学习的阶段嵌入矩阵。
多模态token序列构建：。关键点在于将阶段token S放在序列最前端，使其在自注意力机制中具有最高优先级，全局调制其他模态特征。
层次化Transformer解码器详细设计：可学习查询嵌入定义H个可学习的动作查询向量，用于预测未来H步动作：，其中为可学习参数矩阵。
位置编码使用正弦位置编码为序列中的每个token添加位置信息：，，其中为位置索引，i为维度索引，为隐藏维度。
完整输入序列构建：将条件token、本体token和查询token拼接，并添加位置编码：，其中。
Transformer解码器层：每个Transformer层包含多头自注意力和前馈网络：

。
多头自注意力机制详细公式：
；
；
；
其中h为注意力头数通常为8，为每个头的维度，为输出投影矩阵，分别为查询、键、值的投影矩阵。
前馈网络：，其中为前馈网络的参数，通常中间层维度为。
层堆叠：经过L层Transformer后得到最终隐藏状态，通常L=7：
。
动作预测头：提取最后H个token对应动作查询的隐藏状态，通过线性层预测动作：
；
；
其中为动作输出层的权重和偏置。
阶段条件注意力机制的作用：关键点在于阶段token S通过自注意力机制全局调制其他模态特征。阶段对其他模态的影响是阶段token的Query向量与所有token的Key向量计算注意力权重，决定关注哪些模态特征。其他模态对阶段的关注是所有token的Query向量都会关注阶段token的Key向量，获取当前任务阶段信息。动态特征调制是不同阶段会产生不同的注意力分布，实现阶段引导的特征提取。在开盖操作阶段，阶段token会增强对触觉力矩信号的关注权重用于检测瓶盖旋转阻力，同时抑制对视觉远距离物体的关注权重。
步骤S4：损失函数设计。
本发明基于HIT算法的纯解码器架构，设计了包含动作预测损失、时序特征一致性损失和阶段一致性损失的综合损失函数。
总损失函数为：，其中为动作预测L1损失，为时序特征一致性损失，为阶段一致性损失，为特征损失权重通常为0.1，为阶段损失权重通常为0.5。与ACT和TACT不同，本发明采用纯解码器架构，无需KL散度损失项，简化了训练过程。
动作预测损失使用L1损失来监督动作序列的预测结果，并通过mask忽略padding区域。定义带mask的L1损失如下：
；
其中为批次大小，为chunk大小即预测时域，和为预测与真实动作，为指示函数非padding位置为1否则为0，为有效样本数。L1损失的优势包括：对异常值更鲁棒相比L2损失；梯度更稳定，训练更平滑；适合机器人控制任务的连续动作预测。
时序特征一致性损失约束当前时刻Transformer解码的视觉特征与未来时刻的真实视觉特征保持一致：
；
其中为当前时刻Transformer输出的视觉特征部分，为未来时刻的真实视觉特征通过ResNet提取，为视觉token数量。实现细节包括：数据加载时同时加载当前帧和未来帧；将两帧图像在batch维度拼接；通过ResNet提取特征后分离，前半部分用于解码，后半部分作为监督信号；仅在训练时计算此损失。作用包括：增强视觉特征的时序连贯性；隐式建模未来状态预测；提升长时序任务的性能。
阶段一致性损失确保模型预测的动作与当前阶段的典型动作模式保持一致：，其中为预测动作序列的平均向量，，为样本的阶段标签，为阶段的原型动作向量，为二范数用于衡量预测动作均值与阶段原型动作之间的偏差。阶段原型向量的计算：在训练前从数据集中统计每个阶段的原型动作：，阶段原型向量可离线计算并缓存，训练过程中直接查表使用。
其中为所有属于阶段的动作样本集合，为样本、时间步的真实专家动作，为阶段的动作样本数。阶段一致性损失带来的好处包括：强化阶段语义使模型在不同阶段表现出不同的典型动作风格；提升阶段切换的平滑性减少跨阶段动作跳变；增强对阶段条件的敏感性更好地利用阶段标签作为条件输入；降低模态混淆减少不同阶段动作分布之间的重叠。
超参数配置：在本发明的模型训练过程中，采用了一组经验证能够稳定收敛并获得最佳性能的超参数配置。时序特征一致性损失的权重系数设置为，用于调节该损失项在总体目标函数中的贡献比例。阶段一致性损失的权重系数设定为。在优化器方面，本发明采用Adam优化算法，并将学习率设置为，以保证训练过程的稳定性与收敛性。训练时每个批次的样本数量即批次大小设定为，训练的最大轮数为2000个epoch，以确保模型能够充分学习多模态特征与动作规律。为了捕获动作序列中的时序依赖关系，本发明将每个输入序列的长度即Chunk大小设定为，对应于30Hz采样频率下约2秒的动作片段。在模型结构方面，Transformer的隐藏状态维度设置为，解码器部分堆叠了个Transformer层，同时在多头自注意力机制中采用个注意力头，以保证模型具备充分的表示能力和特征提取能力。
步骤S5：数据采集与预处理。
遥操作系统设计：硬件配置包括姿态追踪器采用Apple Vision Pro追踪操作员头部、腰部、双肘、双手腕姿态；VR手柄控制夹爪开合；移动控制器采用Xbox手柄控制机器人行走速度包括前后、左右、旋转。软件架构为：操作员姿态经运动学逆解生成机器人目标关节角度；VR手柄输入经夹持映射生成夹爪开合；Xbox手柄输入经速度映射生成机器人行走速度；按键输入经阶段标记生成数据集标注。遥操作界面实时显示机器人头部相机画面、叠加显示触觉传感器热图、显示当前阶段标签和剩余时间、提供紧急停止按钮。
数据采集流程：准备阶段在实验台上随机摆放3至5种不同规格的试剂瓶、放置空烧杯作为目标容器、调整光照条件包括明亮、昏暗、侧光。演示阶段操作员穿戴追踪设备站在机器人对面、通过遥操作控制机器人完成任务、在阶段转换点按键标记或自动检测、记录所有传感器数据包括视觉RGB图像@30Hz、触觉压力加接近加振动数据@100Hz下采样到30Hz、力觉末端六维力数据@500Hz下采样到30Hz、本体感知关节位置速度力矩imu@500Hz下采样到30Hz、动作目标关节角度加行走速度@30Hz、阶段标签离散标签@30Hz。数据验证检查任务是否成功完成、检查传感器数据是否完整、检查阶段标注是否合理、剔除失败或异常的演示。数据增强改变试剂瓶位置左中右近远、改变试剂瓶类型玻璃塑料大小、改变光照条件、改变操作员不同人的操作风格。数据集规模：试剂调配任务150个成功演示每个25至45秒、烧杯清洗任务100个成功演示每个25至35秒、仓库取放任务120个成功演示每个35至55秒。
数据预处理：时序对齐确保观测与动作的时序一致性，动作序列提前1帧：，这样保证在时刻的观测对应的动作从开始，符合因果关系。数据增强策略仅在训练集应用，验证集保持原始数据。视觉增强包括颜色抖动色调偏移±0.3饱和度缩放0.7至1.3、随机灰度化10%概率转为灰度图、随机通道排列模拟相机色彩偏差、高斯噪声。触觉增强传感器噪声。力觉增强传感器噪声。本体感知增强关节角度扰动。
Chunk划分策略：将长episode序列划分为固定长度的训练样本，对于长度为L的episode，生成L-H+1个训练样本：
，其中为时刻i的观测包含视觉、触觉、本体感知，为从时刻开始的步动作序列，为时刻的阶段标签，为padding mask全为0表示无padding。
步骤S6：模型训练策略。
训练流程：初始化阶段包括初始化模型参数包括ResNet、Transformer、投影层、嵌入层等；初始化优化器AdamW学习率权重衰减；计算阶段原型向量；设置学习率调度器采用余弦退火策略。
训练循环每个epoch对于训练集中的每个batch，；
前向传播；
；
在模型训练的每一轮迭代中，系统执行以下步骤以优化模型参数：
步骤1：损失计算首先计算当前批次的总损失函数，其定义为各部分损失的加权和：；
步骤2：反向传播与梯度裁剪计算总损失关于模型参数的梯度。为防止梯度爆炸，对梯度进行裁剪处理得到：
；
其中，为预设的梯度裁剪阈值，表示L2范数。
步骤3：参数更新（AdamW优化器）采用AdamW优化算法更新模型参数。首先更新一阶动量和二阶动量：
；
其中，分别为一阶和二阶动量衰减系数（典型值），表示逐元素乘积（Hadamard积）。接着计算偏差修正后的动量估计
；
最后执行参数更新：
；
其中，为学习率，为数值稳定项（设为），为权重衰减系数。
验证阶段：对于验证集中的每个batch使用推理模式无梯度计算：
。
模型保存策略：当时，保存当前模型参数为最佳模型。
学习率调度使用余弦退火策略：
，其中，，。
训练技巧：渐进式训练策略采用从简单到复杂的三阶段训练。
阶段1在Epoch0至500仅训练单阶段简单任务，训练阶段，目的是学习基本的移动和导航能力。
阶段2在Epoch500至1000训练多阶段中等难度任务，训练阶段，目的是学习操作技能和阶段转换。
阶段3在Epoch1000至2000训练完整任务，训练阶段为全部阶段，目的是端到端优化整个任务流程。
课程学习从短序列逐步增加到长序列：
当，当，当。数据平衡策略对不同阶段的样本进行加权采样，避免数据不平衡：
，其中为阶段的样本总数。
步骤S7：推理与部署。
实时推理流程：初始化阶段加载训练好的模型参数、加载归一化统计量、初始化阶段状态、初始化动作缓冲区。
单步推理流程采用30Hz控制频率，在时刻给定观测。
步骤1：阶段检测与更新
首先确定当前任务阶段。该步骤集成了人工引导与自动检测机制：若系统检测到人工干预信号（），则优先采用人工设定的阶段作为当前阶段；否则，调用自动检测函数计算当前阶段。自动检测规则定义如下：
；
步骤2：数据预处理
对采集的图像、触觉、力觉及本体状态数据进行标准化或归一化处理，使其分布适配模型输入要求：
；
步骤3：模型推理
将预处理后的多模态特征数据输入训练好的模型，预测未来步的动作序列：
；
步骤4：时序集成
采用滑动窗口机制对预测动作进行平滑处理。首先将预测的动作序列加入缓冲区：。接着计算当前时刻的动作：
；
其中，为预设的最小有效缓冲区长度，为时间集成权重。
步骤5：反归一化
利用统计参数将模型输出的归一化动作值还原至物理空间的实际量纲：
；
步骤6：安全检查
对输出动作进行幅值限制，确保关节角度和速度处于机器人的物理安全范围内：
；
其中，和分别为关节角度和速度的安全下限与上限。
步骤7：动作执行
将经过安全检查的控制指令发送给机器人底层控制器执行，完成单步控制循环。
阶段引导与人工干预：人工阶段引导机制在任务执行过程中，操作员可通过界面手动切换阶段；
在任务执行过程中，系统实时监测人工干预信号。当操作员通过交互界面手动指定任务阶段时，系统将优先采纳人工指令；
若无人工干预，系统则依据传感器观测数据自动推断当前阶段。
具体地，当前时刻的阶段标签的确定逻辑如下式所示：
；
其中，表示是否检测到人工干预信号，为操作员手动设定的阶段标签，为基于视觉观测和上一时刻阶段的自动阶段检测函数。
当检测到人工干预时，清空动作缓冲区并重置阶段状态。应用场景包括：调试模式逐阶段测试策略性能，验证每个阶段的动作质量；安全模式在危险操作前人工确认阶段；恢复模式任务失败后从特定阶段重新开始，无需从头执行。
数据采集：遥操作演示次数150次成功演示、演示时长每次30至45秒、操作员3名熟练实验员。变化条件包括试剂瓶位置随机摆放在货架不同位置、试剂瓶类型5种不同规格100ml、250ml、500ml、750ml、1L、目标倾倒量50ml至500ml不等、光照条件明亮、正常、昏暗三种。
阶段标注采用半自动标注方法：
操作员在遥操作时按键标记阶段转换点；后处理时结合触觉力矩信号自动检测精细阶段边界；人工审核和调整标注结果。最终标注的7个阶段：
S1搜索定位平均4.2秒，
S2接近抓取平均5.1秒，
S3开盖操作平均3.8秒，
S4倾倒试剂平均9.5秒，
S5盖盖操作平均3.6秒，
S6放回归位平均4.8秒，
S7任务完成平均1.5秒。
模型训练配置：
config = {
'hidden_dim': 512,
'num_layers': 7,
'num_heads': 8,
'latent_dim': 32,
'action_dim': 23,# 7(左臂) + 7(右臂) + 2(夹爪) + 2(腰部) + 2(颈部) +3(底盘)
'num_stages': 7,
'lr': 5e-5,
'batch_size': 16,
'num_epochs': 2000,
'chunk_size': 50,
'lambda_kl': 10.0,
'lambda_feature': 0.1,
'lambda_stage': 0.5,
}
训练过程：训练集验证集划分120比30即8比2比例、训练时间约6小时使用NVIDIARTX 4090、最佳验证损失0.0342在epoch1650、收敛曲线前500个epoch快速下降500至1500缓慢优化1500后稳定。
部署测试：测试次数100次、测试条件与训练数据分布一致。评价指标包括任务成功率为完成所有阶段且倾倒量误差小于10%、阶段转换准确率为正确识别阶段边界、安全性为无碰撞、无溢出、无破损。测试结果：任务成功率92/100即92%、阶段转换准确率96%、平均执行时间27.8秒、倾倒量平均误差6.30%、碰撞次数0、溢出次数3、破损次数0。失败案例分析：5次失败为试剂瓶盖拧得过紧开盖失败、2次失败为倾倒角度过大试剂溢出、1次失败为放回时位置偏移试剂瓶倾倒。改进措施包括增加开盖力矩阈值检测超时则请求人工协助、优化倾倒阶段的角度控制策略、增强放回阶段的视觉对准精度。
对比实验：ACT纯视觉方法成功率58%平均时间42秒数据需求300演示；HIT纯视觉方法成功率65%平均时间39秒数据需求250演示；TACT视觉加触觉方法成功率78%平均时间36秒数据需求200演示；StageACT视觉加阶段方法成功率82%平均时间34秒数据需求180演示；本发明全模态加阶段方法成功率92%平均时间32秒数据需求150演示。发现：力触觉模态在抓取和开盖阶段贡献最大成功率提升14%；阶段条件在长时序任务中效果显著成功率提升10%；三者结合产生协同效应总提升27%。
实施例二
本实施例以烧杯清洗任务为应用场景。在农化实验室中，实验完成后需要对使用过的玻璃器皿进行清洗处理。机器人需要抓取实验台上使用过的烧杯，移动到水槽区域，打开水龙头，进行冲洗和旋转清洗操作，关闭水龙头，沥干水分后放置到晾干架上。该任务对触觉感知的依赖程度较高，需要精确感知水流状态、清洗程度和烧杯表面情况。
系统配置：
机器人平台采用与实施例一相同的人形机器人配置，身高178cm，双臂各7自由度，双手各2指夹爪。传感器配置包括：头部RGB-D相机用于全局场景感知和水槽定位；双手腕RGB相机用于烧杯抓取和水龙头操作的精细引导；分布式触觉传感器共85个单元，在清洗任务中主要依赖夹爪和手腕区域的触觉反馈；末端六维力传感器用于检测抓取力和水流冲击力。
工作环境：
工作环境包括以下要素。实验台为标准实验室工作台，台面高度0.9m，放置使用过的脏烧杯，烧杯内残留有化学试剂或溶液。水槽为不锈钢材质，尺寸为600mm×400mm×300mm，配备单把手旋转水龙头，水龙头高度距水槽底部350mm。水流量可调节，范围为0.5至2L/min，水温为常温。晾干架为三层不锈钢架，每层可放置8个烧杯，架体高度1.2m，层间距300mm。照明条件为实验室标准日光灯照明，照度600至1000lux。
触觉在清洗任务中的作用：
触觉传感器在烧杯清洗任务中发挥关键作用，主要体现在以下方面。
水流检测方面，当水龙头开启后，水流冲击夹爪和烧杯表面会产生2至5N的冲击力，触觉传感器可精确感知该力信号，用于判断水龙头是否成功打开以及水流强度是否合适。
泡沫检测方面，当烧杯内残留洗涤剂或化学试剂时，冲洗过程中会产生泡沫。泡沫的存在会改变触觉传感器的接近信号特征，信号幅值增加15%至30%。通过监测接近信号的变化趋势，可判断烧杯内壁的清洗程度，当泡沫信号稳定低于阈值时表示清洗完成。
烧杯壁接触方面，在旋转清洗阶段，机器人夹爪需要带动烧杯进行360度旋转，使水流均匀冲洗内壁各个部位。触觉传感器实时监测夹爪与烧杯壁之间的接触力，保持在3至8N的适当范围内，既确保抓取稳定性，又避免因力度过大导致玻璃器皿破损。
沥干检测方面，关闭水龙头后，烧杯需要保持倾斜姿态进行沥干。水滴从烧杯口滴落时会产生微小的振动信号，触觉传感器的振动加速度通道可检测该信号，振动频率范围为5至20Hz。当振动信号频率和幅值均低于预设阈值，且持续时间超过2秒时，判定沥干完成。
阶段定义：
烧杯清洗任务划分为9个阶段，各阶段的详细定义如下。
阶段S1为抓取脏烧杯阶段，持续时间3至5秒。机器人根据视觉检测定位实验台上的目标烧杯，调整手臂姿态接近烧杯，夹爪张开至适当开度后闭合抓取。结束条件为触觉传感器检测到稳定的抓取力，力值范围5至12N且持续稳定超过0.5秒。主要使用的传感器包括视觉和触觉。
阶段S2为移动到水槽阶段，持续时间2至4秒。机器人保持烧杯稳定，通过腰部旋转和手臂运动将烧杯移动到水槽上方位置。结束条件为视觉检测确认水槽位于机器人视野中心区域，且烧杯位于水槽正上方，高度距水槽边缘100至150mm。主要使用的传感器包括视觉和本体感知。
阶段S3为开启水龙头阶段，持续时间2至3秒。机器人使用非持握烧杯的手臂操作水龙头把手，向上或向侧方旋转开启水流。结束条件为触觉传感器检测到水流冲击力信号，力值大于2N且呈现稳定的周期性波动特征。主要使用的传感器包括视觉、触觉和力觉。
阶段S4为冲洗内壁阶段，持续时间5至8秒。机器人将烧杯倾斜一定角度，使水流进入烧杯内部冲洗内壁。通过调整烧杯的倾斜角度和位置，确保水流覆盖内壁各个区域。结束条件为达到预设的冲洗时间阈值，或触觉传感器检测到泡沫信号消失并持续稳定超过1秒。主要使用的传感器包括触觉和力觉。
阶段S5为旋转清洗阶段，持续时间4至6秒。机器人在水流冲洗的同时，通过手腕旋转带动烧杯进行360度旋转，共旋转3圈，使水流均匀清洗内壁所有部位。结束条件为完成预设的旋转圈数，通过本体感知传感器的关节角度积分计算确认旋转角度累计达到1080度。主要使用的传感器包括本体感知和触觉。
阶段S6为关闭水龙头阶段，持续时间2至3秒。机器人操作水龙头把手，向下或向相反方向旋转关闭水流。结束条件为触觉传感器检测到水流冲击信号消失，力值降低至0.5N以下并持续稳定超过0.5秒。主要使用的传感器包括视觉、触觉和力觉。
阶段S7为沥干水分阶段，持续时间3至5秒。机器人将烧杯倾斜至开口朝下约45度角的姿态，保持静止使残余水分自然滴落。结束条件为触觉传感器的振动加速度信号频率低于5Hz且幅值低于0.1m/s²，持续时间超过2秒。主要使用的传感器为触觉。
阶段S8为放置晾干架阶段，持续时间3至5秒。机器人将沥干后的烧杯移动到晾干架位置，对准目标放置位并轻放烧杯，然后松开夹爪。结束条件为触觉传感器检测到夹爪压力释放，力值降低至1N以下，且视觉确认烧杯已稳定放置在晾干架上。主要使用的传感器包括视觉和触觉。
阶段S9为任务完成阶段，持续时间1秒。机器人手臂回到初始休息姿态，等待下一个清洗任务指令。
数据采集：
数据采集通过遥操作系统完成。操作员使用姿态追踪设备控制机器人完成清洗任务演示，系统同步记录所有传感器数据。
演示数据规模为100次成功演示，每次演示时长25至35秒，由3名熟练操作员完成。烧杯类型覆盖5种规格，包括50ml、100ml、250ml、400ml和500ml容量的玻璃烧杯。污染程度分为三个等级：轻度污染为少量水溶性残留物，中度污染为油性残留物或轻微结垢，重度污染为干涸的化学试剂残留需要反复冲洗。烧杯初始位置在实验台上随机摆放，距离机器人0.3至0.8m范围内。晾干架放置位置包括上层、中层和下层三种情况。
阶段标注采用半自动标注方法。操作员在遥操作演示过程中通过按键标记主要阶段转换点，后处理阶段结合触觉信号特征进行精细边界调整。水流开启和关闭的阶段边界通过触觉冲击力信号的突变自动检测，沥干完成的边界通过振动信号的衰减特征自动检测，人工审核后确认标注结果。
模型训练：
训练配置采用与实施例一相同的模型架构和超参数设置。训练集与验证集按照80比20的比例划分，即80次演示用于训练，20次演示用于验证。模型训练在NVIDIA RTX 4090GPU上进行，训练时间约为5小时。训练过程中，损失函数在前300个epoch快速下降，300至1200个epoch缓慢优化，1200个epoch后趋于稳定。最佳验证损失为0.0398，出现在第1420个epoch。
针对清洗任务的特点，模型训练中增加了触觉信号的数据增强。在触觉压力通道添加高斯噪声，标准差为0.5N；在振动加速度通道添加高斯噪声，标准差为0.05m/s²。这些数据增强策略提高了模型对传感器噪声的鲁棒性。
测试结果：
测试在与训练数据分布一致的条件下进行，共完成80次独立测试。
任务成功率为89%，即71次成功完成，9次失败。失败案例分析表明：3次失败为水龙头操作失误，把手旋转角度不足导致水流量过小；2次失败为烧杯放置位置偏差过大，与晾干架边缘发生碰撞；2次失败为沥干时间不足，烧杯放置后仍有水滴残留；2次失败为污染严重的烧杯冲洗不彻底。
清洗质量评分由人工评估，满分100分，平均得分91分。评分标准包括内壁清洁程度占40分、无残留水滴占30分、放置位置准确占20分、操作流畅性占10分。
平均执行时间为26.5秒，其中抓取阶段平均3.8秒，移动阶段平均2.9秒，开水龙头平均2.4秒，冲洗阶段平均6.2秒，旋转清洗平均4.8秒，关水龙头平均2.3秒，沥干阶段平均3.6秒，放置阶段平均4.1秒。阶段转换准确率为94%。
触觉模态贡献分析：
为验证触觉模态的贡献，进行了对比实验。在仅使用视觉模态的条件下，开关水龙头的成功率为72%，主要失败原因是无法准确判断水流是否成功开启或关闭。引入触觉模态后，开关水龙头成功率提升至98%，触觉传感器提供的水流冲击力信号成为判断水龙头状态的可靠依据。
在清洗质量评估方面，仅使用视觉模态时容易出现过度清洗问题，平均冲洗时间为9.3秒，造成水资源浪费。引入触觉泡沫检测后，模型能够根据泡沫信号的变化实时判断清洗完成时机，平均冲洗时间降低至6.2秒，过度清洗率减少60%，在保证清洗质量的同时显著节约了水资源。
在沥干检测方面，仅依靠固定时间阈值进行沥干判断时，存在沥干不充分或等待时间过长的问题。触觉振动检测使沥干阶段时间优化了25%，同时确保沥干效果达标。
实施例三
本实施例以仓库物品取放任务为应用场景。在农化产品仓库中，机器人需要根据订单指令从货架上取出指定的产品，运送到打包区域，并放置到指定位置。该任务涉及移动导航、物品搜索、抓取操作和精确放置等多个环节，对机器人的多模态感知能力和长时序任务规划能力提出较高要求。
系统配置：
机器人平台采用移动操作机器人，在实施例一人形机器人的基础上增加了自主导航功能。移动底盘配备激光雷达，型号为RPLIDAR A3，扫描频率15Hz，测量范围25m，角度分辨率0.225度，用于环境建图和自主导航。底盘采用差速驱动方式，最大移动速度1.5m/s，最大旋转速度90度/s，定位精度±50mm。
传感器配置在实施例一的基础上进行了适应性调整。头部RGB-D相机用于货架物品识别和目标定位；双手腕RGB相机用于抓取操作的精细引导；分布式触觉传感器在搬运任务中主要依赖手臂和夹爪区域的反馈，用于滑动检测和碰撞避免；末端六维力传感器用于重量估计和抓取力控制。
工作环境：
工作环境为农化产品仓库，面积200m²，层高4m。货架为标准重型货架，单个货架高度2.5m，宽度1.2m，深度0.6m，共5层，层间距0.5m。货架之间的通道宽度为2m，满足机器人通行和操作需求。仓库内设有3个货架区域，分别存放不同类别的产品。
物品类型包括三类。化肥袋为编织袋包装，规格包括5kg、10kg、15kg、20kg和25kg五种，形状为长方体软包，表面有一定的变形性。农药瓶为塑料或玻璃材质，规格包括0.5kg、1kg、2kg、3kg和5kg五种，形状为圆柱形或方形瓶体。工具箱为塑料或金属材质，规格包括2kg、5kg和10kg三种，形状为带把手的长方体。
仓库内存在动态障碍物，包括其他工作人员和叉车。机器人需要具备动态避障能力，确保在移动过程中不与障碍物发生碰撞。打包区域位于仓库的固定位置，设有传送带和包装工作台。
触觉在搬运任务中的作用：
触觉传感器在仓库物品取放任务中发挥关键作用，主要体现在以下方面。
重量估计方面，不同规格的物品重量差异较大，从0.5kg到25kg不等。机器人在抓取物品后，通过触觉压力分布和末端六维力传感器的综合分析，可在0.5秒内估计物品重量，估计精度达到±10%。根据估计的重量，模型自动调整后续搬运动作的速度和加速度参数，重物采用较低的运动速度和较大的抓取力，轻物采用较高的运动效率。
滑动检测方面，在搬运过程中，特别是搬运重物或表面光滑的物品时，存在物品从夹爪中滑落的风险。触觉传感器通过检测压力分布的变化和微小振动信号，可在物品发生明显滑动之前检测到滑动趋势。检测到滑动信号后，模型立即增加抓取力，力增量为当前抓取力的15%至25%，有效防止物品滑落。滑动检测响应时间小于100ms。
碰撞避免方面，在狭窄的货架通道中进行取放操作时，机器人手臂容易与货架或相邻物品发生意外接触。分布在手臂和前臂区域的触觉传感器可实时检测碰撞事件，检测阈值为2N。检测到碰撞信号后，机器人立即停止当前运动，并进行小幅度回退，然后重新规划运动轨迹避开障碍。碰撞检测响应时间小于50ms，有效保护机器人和货架上的物品不受损坏。
软包变形适应方面，化肥袋等软包装物品在抓取时会发生变形，仅依靠视觉难以准确判断抓取状态。触觉传感器可感知软包表面的压力分布和变形程度，帮助机器人调整夹爪姿态和抓取位置，确保获得稳定的抓取构型。
阶段定义：
仓库物品取放任务划分为8个阶段，各阶段的详细定义如下。
阶段S1为导航到货架阶段，持续时间5至15秒。机器人根据订单信息确定目标货架位置，启动自主导航系统，规划最优路径并移动到目标货架前方。移动过程中实时检测动态障碍物，必要时进行避障和路径重规划。结束条件为机器人到达目标货架前方预设位置，定位误差小于100mm，航向角误差小于5度。主要使用的传感器包括激光雷达、IMU和底盘编码器。
阶段S2为搜索目标物品阶段，持续时间2至5秒。机器人通过头部相机扫描货架各层，识别并定位目标物品。对于多个同类物品的情况，选择位置最易抓取的一个作为目标。结束条件为视觉系统成功检测到目标物品，获得物品的三维位置和姿态信息，检测置信度大于0.9。主要使用的传感器为头部RGB-D相机。
阶段S3为接近抓取阶段，持续时间3至6秒。机器人根据目标物品的位置规划手臂运动轨迹，伸出手臂接近物品，调整夹爪姿态对准物品的最佳抓取位置，然后闭合夹爪完成抓取。结束条件为触觉传感器检测到稳定的抓取力，力值范围根据物品重量估计结果自适应设定，轻物为5至15N，重物为15至40N，且力值稳定持续超过0.5秒。主要使用的传感器包括视觉、触觉和力觉。
阶段S4为取出物品阶段，持续时间2至4秒。机器人将抓取的物品从货架中平稳取出，注意避免与相邻物品或货架结构发生碰撞。取出过程中持续监测触觉信号，如检测到碰撞或滑动，立即调整运动策略。结束条件为物品完全离开货架区域，手臂回到安全位置，触觉传感器确认无碰撞信号。主要使用的传感器包括触觉、力觉和本体感知。
阶段S5为导航到目标位置阶段，持续时间10至20秒。机器人携带物品移动到打包区域的目标放置位置。移动过程中保持物品稳定，根据重量估计结果调整移动速度，重物限速1.0m/s，轻物可达1.5m/s。持续监测触觉滑动信号，必要时停车调整抓取力。结束条件为机器人到达打包区域目标位置，定位误差小于100mm。主要使用的传感器包括激光雷达、触觉和IMU。
阶段S6为放置物品阶段，持续时间3至5秒。机器人将物品平稳放置到传送带或指定位置，缓慢松开夹爪，确保物品不会倾倒或滚落。结束条件为触觉传感器检测到抓取力释放，力值降低至2N以下，且视觉确认物品已稳定放置在目标位置。主要使用的传感器包括视觉、触觉和力觉。
阶段S7为返回初始位置阶段，持续时间10至20秒。机器人完成放置后，导航返回初始等待位置，准备接收下一个订单任务。返回路径可与来时路径不同，根据实时环境选择最优路径。结束条件为机器人到达初始等待位置，定位误差小于100mm。主要使用的传感器包括激光雷达和IMU。
阶段S8为任务完成阶段，持续时间1秒。机器人进入待机状态，手臂保持休息姿态，等待下一个任务指令。
数据采集：
数据采集通过遥操作与自主导航相结合的方式完成。导航阶段采用自主导航模式，操作员仅进行监控和必要时的干预；抓取和放置阶段采用遥操作模式，操作员使用姿态追踪设备控制机器人手臂完成精细操作。
演示数据规模为120次成功演示，每次演示时长35至55秒，由4名操作员完成。物品种类覆盖15种不同产品，包括5种规格的化肥袋、5种规格的农药瓶和5种规格的工具箱。货架位置覆盖3个不同货架区域的各5层，共15种取货位置组合。放置位置包括传送带3个位置和工作台2个位置。
阶段标注采用混合标注方法。导航阶段的开始和结束由系统自动标注，以到达目标位置为判据；抓取和放置阶段由操作员在遥操作过程中标记关键转换点；后处理阶段结合触觉信号和力信号进行精细边界调整，抓取成功和放置完成的边界通过力信号突变自动检测。
模型训练：
训练配置采用与实施例一相同的模型架构。针对仓库任务的特点，模型输入增加了激光雷达的局部占用网格信息，网格分辨率为0.1m，覆盖范围为机器人周围5m×5m区域。该信息以二维图像形式输入，与视觉特征一同经过ResNet18提取特征后进行融合。
训练集与验证集按照80比20的比例划分，即96次演示用于训练，24次演示用于验证。模型训练在NVIDIA RTX 4090 GPU上进行，训练时间约为7小时，较实施例一和实施例二的训练时间略长，原因是增加了激光雷达输入的处理。最佳验证损失为0.0425，出现在第1580个epoch。
针对搬运任务的特点，模型训练中采用了重量平衡采样策略。由于重物搬运的难度较高且样本较少，在训练过程中对重物样本进行过采样，使轻物、中等重量物品和重物的样本比例接近1:1:1，避免模型偏向轻物搬运策略。
测试结果：
测试在与训练数据分布一致的条件下进行，共完成100次独立测试，覆盖不同物品类型、不同货架位置和不同放置位置的组合。
任务成功率为88%，即88次成功完成，12次失败。失败案例分析表明：4次失败为抓取失败，其中2次为物品位置识别偏差导致夹爪未能准确对准，2次为软包变形适应不足导致抓取不稳；3次失败为搬运过程中物品滑落，均发生在搬运大于15kg的重物时；2次失败为导航过程中避障失败，与动态障碍物发生轻微碰撞后任务中断；2次失败为放置位置偏差过大，物品放置后发生倾倒；1次失败为化肥袋轻微破损，在抓取过程中夹爪力过大导致编织袋表面出现小裂口。
平均执行时间为42.3秒，其中导航到货架阶段平均9.2秒，搜索目标阶段平均3.1秒，接近抓取阶段平均4.5秒，取出物品阶段平均2.8秒，导航到目标阶段平均12.6秒，放置物品阶段平均3.8秒，返回阶段平均11.5秒。阶段转换准确率为91%。
物品损坏率为1%，即100次测试中1件物品出现轻微损坏。该损坏为化肥袋表面轻微破损，不影响内容物使用。
触觉模态贡献分析：
为验证触觉模态的贡献，进行了对比实验。
在重物搬运方面，针对重量大于10kg的物品，仅使用视觉模态时物品掉落率为18%，主要原因是无法实时感知物品的滑动趋势。引入触觉滑动检测后，掉落率降低至2%。触觉传感器能够在物品发生明显滑动之前的50至100ms检测到滑动趋势，为抓取力调整提供了充足的响应时间。
在狭窄空间操作方面，货架通道内的操作空间有限，机器人手臂容易与货架或相邻物品发生碰撞。仅使用视觉模态时，平均每10次操作发生1.5次与货架的接触碰撞，碰撞可能导致物品移位或损坏。引入触觉碰撞检测后，碰撞次数减少85%，平均每10次操作仅发生0.23次碰撞。触觉传感器的快速响应能力使机器人能够在碰撞力超过损坏阈值之前停止运动并进行调整。
在软包抓取方面，仅使用视觉模态时，软包抓取的稳定性较差，抓取成功率为76%。引入触觉压力分布感知后，机器人能够根据软包的变形情况实时调整夹爪姿态和抓取位置，软包抓取成功率提升至93%。
在重量估计方面，基于触觉和力觉的重量估计精度达到±10%，使模型能够根据物品重量自适应调整搬运策略，重物采用低速稳定策略，轻物采用高效快速策略，整体搬运效率提升15%。
综上所述，本公开实施例至少具有如下技术效果：
本发明通过引入触觉模态和力觉模态，显著增强多模态感知能力，在试剂瓶抓取任务中触觉反馈使抓取成功率从68%提升至94%。
本发明通过阶段条件控制显式建模任务阶段，在30秒以上的长时序任务中使成功率从42%提升至87%，阶段转换准确率达95%。
本发明采用纯解码器架构，参数量减少15%至20%，推理速度提升35%，训练稳定性显著提高。
本发明每个任务仅需100至150个演示即可达到高性能，数据效率高。
本发明支持人工干预和阶段切换，安全性和可控性显著提高。
可以理解的是，以上实施方式仅仅是为了说明本发明的原理而采用的示例性实施方式，然而本发明并不局限于此。对于本领域内的普通技术人员而言，在不脱离本发明的精神和实质的情况下，可以做出各种变型和改进，这些变型和改进也视为本发明的保护范围。


CN118322196A：

权利要求
1.一种基于参数化动作基元的机器人自适应装配的方法，其特征在于，所述基于参数化动作基元的机器人自适应装配的方法包括以下步骤：
步骤1，手动指定机器人动作原语库，并通过强化学习学习参数以对其进行参数化；
步骤2，参数化动作基元通过表达人类执行任务的数据，结合机器学习方法进行数据处理和模型训练，获取人类在完成特定任务时的技能；
步骤3，将技能赋予机器人，实现机器人在任务执行中的拟人化。
2.如权利要求1所述基于参数化动作基元的机器人自适应装配的方法，其特征在于，所述机器人的学习的过程分为基元划分、模型学习和自主执行。
3.如权利要求1所述基于参数化动作基元的机器人自适应装配的方法，其特征在于，所述强化学习方法如下：
通过重新定义策略，将原始机器人动作纳入强化学习框架；基本动作包括人工定义的行为，如抬起、推动和抓取；基元的行为经参数化处理，其中参数是策略网络的学习输出；
马尔可夫决策过程定义；
在给定的时间范围内通过控制器对机器人进行控制；
通过训练标准的强化学习代理来解决涉及稀疏奖励的操作任务。
4.如权利要求3所述基于参数化动作基元的机器人自适应装配的方法，其特征在于，所述马尔可夫决策过程定义：
让马尔可夫决策过程(MDP)定义为(S,A,R(s,a,s'),Τ(s'|s,a),p(s0),γ)，其中S是真实状态集合，A是可能行动集合，是奖励函数，R(s,a,s')是过渡概率分布，p(s0)定义了初始状态分布，γ是贴现因子；代理使用策略π(a|s)在环境中执行行动，其轨迹分布p(τ＝(s0,a1,...at-1,sT))＝p(s0)Πtπ(at|st)Τ(st+1|st,at)；RL代理的目标是最大化与策略相关的预期奖励总和：
5.如权利要求3所述基于参数化动作基元的机器人自适应装配的方法，其特征在于，所述在给定的时间范围内通过控制器对机器人进行控制：
在由k个基元组成的库中，第k个基元被定义为一个函数fk(s,args)，其目的是在给定的时间范围Hk内通过控制器Ck对机器人进行控制；其中，s表示机器人的状态，args是传递给函数的参数值；控制器Ck是一种通用的状态到达控制器。
6.如权利要求3所述基于参数化动作基元的机器人自适应装配的方法，其特征在于，所述通过训练标准的强化学习代理来解决涉及稀疏奖励的操作任务：
假设有10个基元，每个基元具有3个参数；上层策略网络的输出涉及一个30维的均值和标准差向量，从中提取30维的参数向量；
网络还生成一个10维的logit向量，从中抽取一个10维的单击向量；
整体的行动空间被定义为40维；环境接收40维向量，并根据基元的单击向量从参数向量中选择适当的参数(3维向量)；
然后在环境中执行相应的基元；根据这一策略架构和基元执行格式，通过训练标准的强化学习代理来解决涉及稀疏奖励的操作任务。
7.一种实施如权利要求1-6任意一项所述基于参数化动作基元的机器人自适应装配的方法的基于参数化动作基元的机器人自适应装配的系统，其特征在于，所述基于参数化动作基元的机器人自适应装配的系统包括：
参数化模块，用于手动指定机器人动作原语库，并通过强化学习学习参数以对其进行参数化；
模型训练模块，用于参数化动作基元通过表达人类执行任务的数据，结合机器学习方法进行数据处理和模型训练，获取人类在完成特定任务时的技能；
拟人化模块，用于将技能赋予机器人，实现机器人在任务执行中的拟人化。
8.一种计算机设备，其特征在于，所述计算机设备包括存储器和处理器，所述存储器存储有计算机程序，所述计算机程序被所述处理器执行时，使得所述处理器执行如权利要求1-6任意一项所述基于参数化动作基元的机器人自适应装配的方法的步骤。
9.一种计算机可读存储介质，存储有计算机程序，所述计算机程序被处理器执行时，使得所述处理器执行如权利要求1-6任意一项所述基于参数化动作基元的机器人自适应装配的方法的步骤。
10.一种信息数据处理终端，其特征在于，所述信息数据处理终端用于实现如权利要求7所述基于参数化动作基元的机器人自适应装配的系统。
说明书
基于参数化动作基元的机器人自适应装配的方法
技术领域
本发明属于装配技术领域，尤其涉及一种基于参数化动作基元的机器人自适应装配的方法。
背景技术
随着大规模定制需求日益强烈，柔性装配线承担相似品种不同系列工业产品共线装配，自动化率高且工艺编排灵活，已广泛应用于汽车、轨道客车、3C电子产品等柔性制造领域。多智能体机器人协作是复杂产品柔性装配的重要实现形式，相较于中央控制系统具有更高的柔性、动态性及容错性。面向劣化效应下工况负载变动与机器人性能演变的混流装配线稳健运行需求，协作机器人通过共享工作空间、技能迁移、切换作业模式适应新任务更迭，突破操作分配唯一性局限，确保装配任务动态匹配时产线稳定运行。在多工况多任务的混流装配环境下，单个智能体机器人执行操作是一个持续的动态过程，受到任务不确定性、外部观测和过程噪声等影响，通过长期与环境交互具备多模式感知、优化控制、自主决策、自适应执行等能力。难以根据不同的产品特征和要求，使装配过程能够根据产品的特性进行调整和优化。
通过上述分析，现有技术存在的问题及缺陷为：
在多工况多任务的混流装配环境下，单个智能体机器人执行操作是一个持续的动态过程，受到任务不确定性、外部观测和过程噪声等影响，通过长期与环境交互具备多模式感知、优化控制、自主决策、自适应执行等能力。难以根据不同的产品特征和要求，使装配过程能够根据产品的特性进行调整和优化。
发明内容
针对现有技术存在的问题，本发明提供了一种基于参数化动作基元的机器人自适应装配的方法。
本发明是这样实现的，一种基于参数化动作基元的机器人自适应装配的方法包括：
步骤1，手动指定机器人动作原语库，并通过强化学习学习参数以对其进行参数化；
步骤2，参数化动作基元通过表达人类执行任务的数据，结合机器学习方法进行数据处理和模型训练，获取人类在完成特定任务时的技能；
步骤3，将技能赋予机器人，实现机器人在任务执行中的拟人化。
进一步，所述机器人的学习的过程分为基元划分、模型学习和自主执行。
进一步，所述强化学习方法如下：
通过重新定义策略，将原始机器人动作纳入强化学习框架；基本动作包括人工定义的行为，如抬起、推动和抓取；基元的行为经参数化处理，其中参数是策略网络的学习输出；
马尔可夫决策过程定义；
在给定的时间范围内通过控制器对机器人进行控制；
通过训练标准的强化学习代理来解决涉及稀疏奖励的操作任务。
进一步，所述马尔可夫决策过程定义：
让马尔可夫决策过程(MDP)定义为(S,A,R(s,a,s'),Τ(s'|s,a),p(s0),γ)，其中S是真实状态集合，A是可能行动集合，是奖励函数，R(s,a,s')是过渡概率分布，p(s0)定义了初始状态分布，γ是贴现因子；代理使用策略π(a|s)在环境中执行行动，其轨迹分布p(τ＝(s0,a1,...at-1,sT))＝p(s0)∏tπ(at|st)Τ(st+1|st,at)；RL代理的目标是最大化与策略相关的预期奖励总和：
进一步，所述在给定的时间范围内通过控制器对机器人进行控制：
在由k个基元组成的库中，第k个基元被定义为一个函数fk(s,args)，其目的是在给定的时间范围Hk内通过控制器Ck对机器人进行控制；其中，s表示机器人的状态，args是传递给函数的参数值；控制器Ck是一种通用的状态到达控制器。
进一步，所述通过训练标准的强化学习代理来解决涉及稀疏奖励的操作任务：
假设有10个基元，每个基元具有3个参数；上层策略网络的输出涉及一个30维的均值和标准差向量，从中提取30维的参数向量；
网络还生成一个10维的logit向量，从中抽取一个10维的单击向量；
整体的行动空间被定义为40维；环境接收40维向量，并根据基元的单击向量从参数向量中选择适当的参数(3维向量)；
然后在环境中执行相应的基元；根据这一策略架构和基元执行格式，通过训练标准的强化学习代理来解决涉及稀疏奖励的操作任务。
本发明的另一目的在于提供一种基于参数化动作基元的机器人自适应装配的系统包括：
参数化模块，用于手动指定机器人动作原语库，并通过强化学习学习参数以对其进行参数化；
模型训练模块，用于参数化动作基元通过表达人类执行任务的数据，结合机器学习方法进行数据处理和模型训练，获取人类在完成特定任务时的技能；
拟人化模块，用于将技能赋予机器人，实现机器人在任务执行中的拟人化。
本发明的另一目的在于提供一种计算机设备，所述计算机设备包括存储器和处理器，所述存储器存储有计算机程序，所述计算机程序被所述处理器执行时，使得所述处理器执行所述基于参数化动作基元的机器人自适应装配的方法的步骤。
本发明的另一目的在于提供一种计算机可读存储介质，存储有计算机程序，所述计算机程序被处理器执行时，使得所述处理器执行所述基于参数化动作基元的机器人自适应装配的方法的步骤。
本发明的另一目的在于提供一种信息数据处理终端，所述信息数据处理终端用于实现所述基于参数化动作基元的机器人自适应装配的系统。
结合上述的技术方案和解决的技术问题，请从以下几方面分析本发明所要保护的技术方案所具备的优点及积极效果为：
第一、针对上述现有技术存在的技术问题以及解决该问题的难度，紧密结合本发明的所要保护的技术方案以及研发过程中结果和数据等，详细、深刻地分析本发明技术方案如何解决的技术问题，解决问题之后带来的一些具备创造性的技术效果。具体描述如下：
本发明构建机器人动作基元库通过强化学习这些参数化基元确保机器人在遇到尺寸偏差或不完全符合要求的零部件时，系统可以自动调整装配参数，确保最终组装出的产品符合要求。本发明采用以下技术方案：手动指定机器人动作原语库(RAPS)，并通过强化学习学习参数以对其进行参数化。这些参数化的基元具有高度的表达能力，易于使用，可实现有效的探索，并在不同的机器人、任务和环境中通用。参数化动作基元通过表达人类执行任务的数据，结合机器学习方法进行数据处理和模型训练，获取人类在完成特定任务时的技能。最终，将这些技能赋予机器人，实现机器人在任务执行中的拟人化。机器人学习的过程可分为基元划分、模型学习和自主执行三个主要部分。
附图说明
图1是本发明实施例提供的基于参数化动作基元的机器人自适应装配的方法流程图。
图2是本发明实施例提供的基于参数化动作基元的机器人自适应装配的系统结构框图。
图3是本发明实施例提供的带有末端执行器低级动作的反馈控制回路图。
图4是本发明实施例提供的控制系统框图。
图5是本发明实施例提供的通过RAPS(robot actionprimitives)解决机器人孔轴装配任务的策略流程图。
具体实施方式
为了使本发明的目的、技术方案及优点更加清楚明白，以下结合实施例，对本发明进行进一步详细说明。应当理解，此处所描述的具体实施例仅仅用以解释本发明，并不用于限定本发明。
一、解释说明实施例。为了使本领域技术人员充分了解本发明如何具体实现，该部分是对权利要求技术方案进行展开说明的解释说明实施例。
如图1所示，本发明实施例提供的一种基于参数化动作基元的机器人自适应装配的方法包括以下步骤：
S101，手动指定机器人动作原语库，并通过强化学习学习参数以对其进行参数化；
S102，参数化动作基元通过表达人类执行任务的数据，结合机器学习方法进行数据处理和模型训练，获取人类在完成特定任务时的技能；
S103，将技能赋予机器人，实现机器人在任务执行中的拟人化。
本发明实施例提供的机器人的学习的过程分为基元划分、模型学习和自主执行。
本发明实施例提供的强化学习方法如下：
通过重新定义策略，将原始机器人动作纳入强化学习框架；基本动作包括人工定义的行为，如抬起、推动和抓取；基元的行为经参数化处理，其中参数是策略网络的学习输出；
马尔可夫决策过程定义；
在给定的时间范围内通过控制器对机器人进行控制；
通过训练标准的强化学习代理来解决涉及稀疏奖励的操作任务。
本发明实施例提供的马尔可夫决策过程定义：
让马尔可夫决策过程(MDP)定义为(S,A,R(s,a,s'),Τ(s'|s,a),p(s0),γ)，其中S是真实状态集合，A是可能行动集合，是奖励函数，R(s,a,s')是过渡概率分布，p(s0)定义了初始状态分布，γ是贴现因子；代理使用策略π(a|s)在环境中执行行动，其轨迹分布p(τ＝(s0,a1,...at-1,sT))＝p(s0)∏tπ(at|st)Τ(st+1|st,at)；RL代理的目标是最大化与策略相关的预期奖励总和：
本发明实施例提供的在给定的时间范围内通过控制器对机器人进行控制：
在由k个基元组成的库中，第k个基元被定义为一个函数fk(s,args)，其目的是在给定的时间范围Hk内通过控制器Ck对机器人进行控制；其中，s表示机器人的状态，args是传递给函数的参数值；控制器Ck是一种通用的状态到达控制器。
本发明实施例提供的通过训练标准的强化学习代理来解决涉及稀疏奖励的操作任务：
假设有10个基元，每个基元具有3个参数；上层策略网络的输出涉及一个30维的均值和标准差向量，从中提取30维的参数向量；
网络还生成一个10维的logit向量，从中抽取一个10维的单击向量；
整体的行动空间被定义为40维；环境接收40维向量，并根据基元的单击向量从参数向量中选择适当的参数(3维向量)；
然后在环境中执行相应的基元；根据这一策略架构和基元执行格式，通过训练标准的强化学习代理来解决涉及稀疏奖励的操作任务。
如图2所示，本发明实施例提供的一种基于参数化动作基元的机器人自适应装配的系统包括：
参数化模块，用于手动指定机器人动作原语库，并通过强化学习学习参数以对其进行参数化；
模型训练模块，用于参数化动作基元通过表达人类执行任务的数据，结合机器学习方法进行数据处理和模型训练，获取人类在完成特定任务时的技能；
拟人化模块，用于将技能赋予机器人，实现机器人在任务执行中的拟人化。
本发明实施例提供的一种计算机设备，所述计算机设备包括存储器和处理器，所述存储器存储有计算机程序，所述计算机程序被所述处理器执行时，使得所述处理器执行所述基于参数化动作基元的机器人自适应装配的方法的步骤。
本发明实施例提供的一种计算机可读存储介质，存储有计算机程序，所述计算机程序被处理器执行时，使得所述处理器执行所述基于参数化动作基元的机器人自适应装配的方法的步骤。
本发明实施例提供的一种信息数据处理终端，所述信息数据处理终端用于实现所述基于参数化动作基元的机器人自适应装配的系统。
本发明具体实施：
本研究采用以下技术方案：手动指定机器人动作原语库(RAPS)，并通过强化学习学习参数以对其进行参数化。这些参数化的基元具有高度的表达能力，易于使用，可实现有效的探索，并在不同的机器人、任务和环境中通用。参数化动作基元通过表达人类执行任务的数据，结合机器学习方法进行数据处理和模型训练，获取人类在完成特定任务时的技能。最终，将这些技能赋予机器人，实现机器人在任务执行中的拟人化。机器人学习的过程可分为基元划分、模型学习和自主执行三个主要部分。
步骤一：关注了机器人强化学习领域的一个关键问题：通过重新定义策略，将原始机器人动作纳入强化学习框架。这些基本动作包括人工定义的行为，例如抬起、推动和抓取等。这些基元的行为经参数化处理，其中参数是策略网络的学习输出。以顶抓为例，其参数由四个标量值构成：抓取位置(x,y)、向下移动的幅度(z)以及抓手应关闭的程度。将这一参数化行为称为强化学习的机器人动作原语(RAPS)。这种参数化动作具有易于设计的特点，只需进行一次定义，便可在不同任务中重复使用，而无需进行修改。
步骤二：让马尔可夫决策过程(MDP)定义为(S,A,R(s,a,s'),Τ(s'|s,a),p(s0),γ)，其中S是真实状态集合，A是可能行动集合，是奖励函数，R(s,a,s')是过渡概率分布，p(s0)定义了初始状态分布，γ是贴现因子。代理使用策略π(a|s)在环境中执行行动，其轨迹分布p(τ＝(s0,a1,...at-1,sT))＝p(s0)∏tπ(at|st)Τ(st+1|st,at)。RL代理的目标是最大化与策略相关的预期奖励总和：随后可以通过图像观测获得真实状态。在这种情况下，包括一个观测空间Ο(对应于环境可能发射的视觉观测数据集)、一个观测模型p(o|s)(定义发射概率)和一个策略π(a|o)(对观测数据进行操作)。
步骤三：在由k个基元组成的库中，第k个基元被定义为一个函数fk(s,args)，其目的是在给定的时间范围Hk内通过控制器Ck对机器人进行控制。其中，s表示机器人的状态，args是传递给函数的参数值。控制器Ck是一种通用的状态到达控制器，例如末端执行器或关节位置控制器。假设每个机器人都能够获取这样一种控制器，若没有提供，也可直接定义和调整。在这种情况下，任何机器人都能重复使用相同的基本技能。在这一框架下，控制器的选择、误差度量以及计算s*的方法共同决定了基元运动的行为，即在空间中如何形成唯一的运动。如图3所示，每个技能都被构想为一个带有末端执行器低级动作的反馈控制回路。输入参数用于定义达到的目标状态，而基本动作则执行一个循环，将机器人状态与目标机器人状态之间的误差逐渐降至零。这一过程确保了技能的有效执行和适应性。
在第四步中，假设有10个基元，每个基元具有3个参数。上层策略网络的输出涉及一个30维的均值和标准差向量，从中提取30维的参数向量。此外，该网络还生成一个10维的logit向量，从中抽取一个10维的单击向量。因此，整体的行动空间被定义为40维。环境接收40维向量，并根据基元的单击向量从参数向量中选择适当的参数(3维向量)，然后在环境中执行相应的基元。借助这一策略架构和基元执行格式，通过训练标准的强化学习代理来解决涉及稀疏奖励的操作任务。图5展示了通过RAPS(robot action primitives)解决机器人孔轴装配任务的策略流程图。
下面结合附图和具体实施例对本发明作进一步详细说明。
步骤一：针对装配任务，手动定义一组基本的动作原语表1，例如举起、抓取、旋转、放置等。这构成了机器人的基本动作库。利用强化学习算法，例如强化学习，对上述动作原语进行参数化。通过模拟和实际操作，机器人学习调整参数以执行这些动作，并在执行过程中获得奖励信号。
步骤二：如图4所示的控制系统框图，系统主要包括机械臂1、六维力/力矩传感器2、PC上位机3等关键组件。在系统操作中，六维力/力矩传感器2负责测量接触力，而机械臂1则是一具带有运动控制功能的多轴机械臂，六维力/力矩传感器2被安装在其末端。PC上位机3通过通信连接与机械臂1和六维力/力矩传感器2，实现对系统的整体控制。系统运行过程中，机械臂1在PC上位机3的控制指令下，执行轴孔装配任务。值得注意的是，所述PC上位机3构建的控制系统基于ROS平台，涵盖控制算法节点、基于六维力/力矩传感器2的反馈节点以及机械臂1的实时运动控制节点。六维力/力矩传感器2和机械臂1通过网线连接至同一局域网，实现数据的高效传输。机械臂1与PC之间采用Modbus通信协议，同时采用ROS中统一的通信接口，实现机械臂1状态读取和运动控制的协同作业。此外，六维力/力矩传感器2采用Ethernet协议将数据传送至PC端，在控制算法节点中接收各传感器状态，并据此计算下一周期的控制指令。
步骤三：在协作装配任务中，两个机器人协同工作只需要定义一套动作原语，在不同任务中重复使用，无需进行修改。例如“举起”只需将机械臂向上举起即可。对于这个动作，args是机械臂的举起量，例如举起30厘米；这个原语的机器人状态是机器人末端执行器位置；k是库中举起原语的索引；Ck是末端执行器控制器；ek(s,s*)＝s*-s；Hk是末端执行器控制器范围，在的设置中范围为100-300。目标位置s*的计算公式为s+[0,0,args]。f移动机械臂Hk步，将s推向s*。
步骤四：基于图4所示的控制方案，通过强化学习，让机器人的动作基元获取适当的参数映射。随后，通过组合不同的动作基元，机器人能够灵活运用这些技能，从而解决各种机器人装配任务。
表1

应当注意，本发明的实施方式可以通过硬件、软件或者软件和硬件的结合来实现。硬件部分可以利用专用逻辑来实现；软件部分可以存储在存储器中，由适当的指令执行系统，例如微处理器或者专用设计硬件来执行。本领域的普通技术人员可以理解上述的设备和方法可以使用计算机可执行指令和/或包含在处理器控制代码中来实现，例如在诸如磁盘、CD或DVD-ROM的载体介质、诸如只读存储器(固件)的可编程的存储器或者诸如光学或电子信号载体的数据载体上提供了这样的代码。本发明的设备及其模块可以由诸如超大规模集成电路或门阵列、诸如逻辑芯片、晶体管等的半导体、或者诸如现场可编程门阵列、可编程逻辑设备等的可编程硬件设备的硬件电路实现，也可以用由各种类型的处理器执行的软件实现，也可以由上述硬件电路和软件的结合例如固件来实现。
以上所述，仅为本发明的具体实施方式，但本发明的保护范围并不局限于此，任何熟悉本技术领域的技术人员在本发明揭露的技术范围内，凡在本发明的精神和原则之内所作的任何修改、等同替换和改进等，都应涵盖在本发明的保护范围之内。

CN113156926B：

权利要求
1.一种机器人的有限状态机的建立方法，其特征在于，应用于机器人的连续跳跃模型，所述连续跳跃模型中机器人状态包括加速相、腾空相和减速相，所述建立方法包括：
将每种机器人状态分别划分为规划进入阶段、实际进入阶段、状态持续阶段以及状态结束与跳转阶段；其中，所述加速相和所述减速相各自的规划进入阶段与对应的实际进入阶段分别相重合；
对所述机器人在所述加速相、腾空相和减速相中各个不同阶段之间进行的状态切换进行检测，得到对应的状态检测结果；
根据所述状态检测结果，更新所述机器人对应的状态信息；
根据更新后的状态信息，控制所述机器人在所述加速相、腾空相和减速相中各个不同的阶段进行切换以控制所述机器人进行连续跳跃。
2.根据权利要求1所述的建立方法，其特征在于，所述对所述机器人在所述加速相、腾空相和减速相之间进行的循环状态切换进行检测，得到对应的状态检测结果的步骤包括：
计算所述机器人的质心竖直方向速度并获取对应的速度方向和速度变化方向，判断所述质心竖直方向速度的大小是否大于预设速度阈值；
当所述质心竖直方向速度大于所述预设速度阈值且所述速度方向和对应的速度变化方向向上时，判断所述机器人处于所述加速相中的状态持续阶段；
根据质心加速度规划轨迹获取所述机器人从所述加速相进入所述腾空相的规划切换时刻并判断所述规划切换时刻是否到来，当所述规划切换时刻到来时，判断所述机器人进入所述加速相的状态结束与跳转阶段，并在下一控制周期进入所述腾空相的规划进入阶段；
计算机器人足底与地面之间的竖直方向作用力并获取对应的作用力变化方向，判断所述竖直方向作用力是否小于或等于第一预设作用力阈值；
当所述作用力变化方向为逐渐变小且所述竖直方向作用力小于或等于所述第一预设作用力阈值时，判断所述机器人进入所述腾空相的实际进入阶段，并在下一控制周期处于所述腾空相中的状态持续阶段；
当所述竖直方向作用力小于或等于所述第一预设作用力阈值且保持不变时时，判断所述机器人处于所述腾空相中的状态持续阶段；
当所述作用力变化方向为逐渐变大且所述竖直方向作用力大于或等于所述第二预设作用力阈值时，判断所述机器人进入所述腾空相的状态结束与跳转阶段，并在下一控制周期进入所述减速相的规划进入阶段和实际进入阶段；
当所述速度方向向下、对应的速度变化方向向上且所述质心竖直方向速度大于所述预设速度阈值时，判断所述机器人处于所述减速相中的状态持续阶段；
当所述速度方向向下直至所述质心竖直方向速度小于或等于所述预设速度阈值时，判断所述机器人进入所述减速相中的状态结束与跳转阶段，并在下一控制周期进入所述加速相的规划进入阶段和实际进入阶段。
3.根据权利要求2所述的建立方法，其特征在于，所述机器人足底设置有压力传感器，所述计算所述机器人足底与地面之间的竖直方向作用力的步骤中对应的计算公式为：

其中，Rfoot是所述机器人足底的姿态矩阵，是压力传感器测量值，表示所述竖直方向作用力。
4.根据权利要求2所述的建立方法，其特征在于，所述机器人的各关节末端设置有转矩传感器，所述计算所述机器人足底与地面之间的竖直方向作用力的步骤中对应的计算公式为：

其中，JT是所述机器人的质心相对于各关节的雅克比矩阵的转置矩阵，是利用所述转矩传感器得到的所述机器人的各关节受力矩组成的列向量，表示所述竖直方向作用力。
5.根据权利要求2所述的建立方法，其特征在于，所述计算所述机器人的质心竖直方向速度的步骤中对应的计算公式为：

其中，为所述机器人各关节各自对应的角速度，J是所述机器人的质心相对于各关节的雅克比矩阵，表示所述机器人的质心速度，所述质心竖直方向速度为的竖直方向分量。
6.根据权利要求2所述的建立方法，其特征在于，所述状态信息包括状态名称、规划进入标志位、实际进入标志位、状态持续标志位以及状态结束与跳转标志位，所述根据所述状态检测结果，更新所述机器人对应的状态信息的步骤包括：
当所述状态检测结果为所述机器人处于所述加速相对应的状态持续阶段时，当且仅当将对应的状态持续标志位置为有效；
当所述状态检测结果为所述机器人进入所述加速相的状态结束与跳转阶段时，将对应的状态结束与跳转标志位置为有效，并在下一控制周期所述机器人进入所述腾空相的规划进入阶段时，将对应的状态结束与跳转标志位置为无效，并将对应的规划进入标志位置为有效；
当所述状态检测结果为所述机器人进入所述腾空相的实际进入阶段时，将对应的规划进入标志位置为无效，并将对应的实际进入标志位置为有效，并在下一控制周期所述机器人处于所述腾空相的状态持续阶段时，将对应的实际进入标志位置为无效；
当所述状态检测结果为所述机器人进入所述腾空相的状态结束与跳转阶段时，将对应的状态结束与跳转标志位置为有效，并在下一控制周期所述机器人进入所述减速相的规划进入阶段和实际进入阶段时，将对应的状态结束与跳转标志位置为无效，并将对应的规划进入标志位置和实际进入标志位置为有效，并在所述机器人处于所述减速相的状态持续阶段时，将对应的规划进入标志位置和实际进入标志位置为无效，且将对应的状态持续标志位置为有效；
当所述状态检测结果为所述机器人进入所述减速相的状态结束与跳转阶段时，将对应的状态结束与跳转标志位置为有效，并在下一控制周期所述机器人进入所述加速相的规划进入阶段和实际进入阶段时，将对应的状态结束与跳转标志位置为无效，并将对应的规划进入标志位置和实际进入标志位置为有效。
7.根据权利要求1所述的建立方法，其特征在于，所述根据更新后的状态信息，控制所述机器人在所述加速相、腾空相和减速相中各个不同的阶段进行切换的步骤包括：
当更新后的规划进入标志位有效时，结合更新后的状态名称，控制所述机器人进入对应的规划进入阶段，重置计时器，并生成初始质心规划轨迹；
当更新后的实际进入标志位有效时，结合更新后的状态名称，控制所述机器人进入对应的实际进入阶段，计算并记录所述机器人对应的运动参数信息；
当更新后的状态持续标志位有效时，结合更新后的状态名称，控制所述机器人进入对应的状态持续阶段，根据所述初始质心规划轨迹和所述运动参数信息进行质心轨迹规划和质心速度控制；
当更新后的状态结束与跳转标志位有效时，结合更新后的状态名称，控制所述机器人进入对应的状态结束与跳转阶段。
8.一种机器人的有限状态机，其特征在于，应用于机器人的连续跳跃模型，所述连续跳跃模型中机器人状态包括加速相、腾空相和减速相，所述有限状态机包括状态划分单元、事件检测单元、状态变更单元和行为处理单元，所述有限状态机包括：
状态划分单元，用于将每种机器人状态分别划分为规划进入阶段、实际进入阶段、状态持续阶段以及状态结束与跳转阶段；其中，所述加速相和所述减速相各自的规划进入阶段与对应的实际进入阶段分别相重合；
事件检测单元，用于对所述机器人在所述加速相、腾空相和减速相中各个不同阶段之间进行的状态切换进行检测，得到对应的状态检测结果；
状态变更单元，用于根据所述状态检测结果，更新所述机器人对应的状态信息；
行为处理单元，用于根据更新后的状态信息，控制所述机器人在所述加速相、腾空相和减速相中各个不同的阶段进行切换以控制所述机器人进行连续跳跃。
9.一种机器人，其特征在于，包括存储器以及处理器，所述存储器用于存储计算机程序，所述处理器运行所述计算机程序以使所述机器人执行权利要求1至7中任一项所述的建立方法。
10.一种可读存储介质，其特征在于，所述可读存储介质存储有计算机程序，所述计算机程序在被处理器运行时执行权利要求1至7中任一项所述的建立方法。
说明书
机器人的有限状态机的建立方法、有限状态机和机器人
技术领域
本发明涉及机器人控制领域，尤其涉及一种机器人的有限状态机的建立方法、有限状态机和机器人。
背景技术
在机器人的行走理论中，主要是通过控制零力矩点的位置，产生机器人水平方向的质心运动轨迹，同时保证机器人运动中的平衡问题。由于腾空状态中，机器人与地面没有力作用，机器人处于自由落体状态，着地时的运动模型和动力学方程完全不适用，上述方法不适用于机器人的连续跳跃和奔跑。因此，在处理机器人跳跃和奔跑运动控制时，急需建立一种判定机器人所处状态的方法或模型，以决定机器人所处的状态，从而确定该时刻下机器人执行的行为。
发明内容
鉴于此，本发明提供一种机器人的有限状态机的建立方法、有限状态机和机器人，能够通过将连续跳跃模型中每种机器人状态划分为规划进入阶段、实际进入阶段、状态持续阶段以及状态结束与跳转阶段，进而建立有限状态机，能够在机器人跳跃过程中实时获取下一时刻机器人的更新状态信息，进而输出机器人各关节的运动控制指令，使机器人根据上述运动指令在加速相、腾空相和减速相中各个不同阶段之间进行状态切换，最终实现机器人的可变高度跳跃、可变腾空时间跳跃、可变跳跃轨迹跳跃以及连续跳跃，大大提高了机器人连续跳跃的稳定性。
一种机器人的有限状态机的建立方法，应用于机器人的连续跳跃模型，连续跳跃模型中机器人状态包括加速相、腾空相和减速相，建立方法包括：
将每种机器人状态分别划分为规划进入阶段、实际进入阶段、状态持续阶段以及状态结束与跳转阶段；其中，加速相和减速相各自的规划进入阶段与对应的实际进入阶段分别相重合；
对机器人在加速相、腾空相和减速相中各个不同阶段之间进行的状态切换进行检测，得到对应的状态检测结果；
根据状态检测结果，更新机器人对应的状态信息；
根据更新后的状态信息，控制机器人在加速相、腾空相和减速相中各个不同的阶段进行切换以控制机器人进行连续跳跃。
在一个实施例中，对机器人在加速相、腾空相和减速相之间进行的循环状态切换进行检测，得到对应的状态检测结果的步骤包括：
计算机器人的质心竖直方向速度并获取对应的速度方向和速度变化方向，判断质心竖直方向速度的大小是否大于预设速度阈值；
当质心竖直方向速度大于预设速度阈值且速度方向和对应的速度变化方向向上时，判断机器人处于加速相中的状态持续阶段；
根据质心加速度规划轨迹获取机器人从加速相进入腾空相的规划切换时刻并判断规划切换时刻是否到来，当规划切换时刻到来时，判断机器人进入加速相的状态结束与跳转阶段，并在下一控制周期进入腾空相的规划进入阶段；
计算机器人足底与地面之间的竖直方向作用力并获取对应的作用力变化方向，判断竖直方向作用力是否小于或等于第一预设作用力阈值；
当作用力变化方向为逐渐变小且竖直方向作用力小于或等于第一预设作用力阈值时，判断机器人进入腾空相的实际进入阶段，并在下一控制周期处于腾空相中的状态持续阶段；
当所述竖直方向作用力小于或等于所述第一预设作用力阈值且保持不变时时，判断所述机器人处于所述腾空相中的状态持续阶段；
当作用力变化方向为逐渐变大且竖直方向作用力大于或等于第二预设作用力阈值时，判断机器人进入腾空相的状态结束与跳转阶段，并在下一控制周期进入减速相的规划进入阶段和实际进入阶段；
当速度方向向下、对应的速度变化方向向上且质心竖直方向速度大于预设速度阈值时，判断机器人处于减速相中的状态持续阶段；
当速度方向向下直至质心竖直方向速度小于或等于预设速度阈值时，判断机器人进入减速相中的状态结束与跳转阶段，并在下一控制周期进入加速相的规划进入阶段和实际进入阶段。
在一个实施例中，机器人足底设置有压力传感器，计算机器人足底与地面之间的竖直方向作用力的步骤中对应的计算公式为：

其中，Rfoot是机器人足底的姿态矩阵，是压力传感器测量值，表示竖直方向作用力。
在一个实施例中，机器人的各关节末端设置有转矩传感器，计算机器人足底与地面之间的竖直方向作用力的步骤中对应的计算公式为：

其中，JT是机器人的质心相对于各关节的雅克比矩阵的转置矩阵，是利用转矩传感器得到的机器人的各关节受力矩组成的列向量，表示竖直方向作用力。
在一个实施例中，计算机器人的质心竖直方向速度的步骤中对应的计算公式为：

其中，为所述机器人各关节各自对应的角速度，J是所述机器人的质心相对于各关节的雅克比矩阵，表示所述机器人的质心速度，所述质心竖直方向速度为的竖直方向分量。
在一个实施例中，状态信息包括状态名称、规划进入标志位、实际进入标志位、状态持续标志位以及状态结束与跳转标志位，根据状态检测结果，更新机器人对应的状态信息的步骤包括：
当所述状态检测结果为所述机器人处于所述加速相对应的状态持续阶段时，当且仅当将对应的状态持续标志位置为有效；
当所述状态检测结果为所述机器人进入所述加速相的状态结束与跳转阶段时，将对应的状态结束与跳转标志位置为有效，并在下一控制周期所述机器人进入所述腾空相的规划进入阶段时，将对应的状态结束与跳转标志位置为无效，并将对应的规划进入标志位置为有效；
当所述状态检测结果为所述机器人进入所述腾空相的实际进入阶段时，将对应的规划进入标志位置为无效，并将对应的实际进入标志位置为有效，并在下一控制周期所述机器人处于所述腾空相的状态持续阶段时，将对应的实际进入标志位置为无效；
当所述状态检测结果为所述机器人进入所述腾空相的状态结束与跳转阶段时，将对应的状态结束与跳转标志位置为有效，并在下一控制周期所述机器人进入所述减速相的规划进入阶段和实际进入阶段时，将对应的状态结束与跳转标志位置为无效，并将对应的规划进入标志位置和实际进入标志位置为有效，并在所述机器人处于所述减速相的状态持续阶段时，将对应的规划进入标志位置和实际进入标志位置为无效，且将对应的状态持续标志位置为有效；
当所述状态检测结果为所述机器人进入所述减速相的状态结束与跳转阶段时，将对应的状态结束与跳转标志位置为有效，并在下一控制周期所述机器人进入所述加速相的规划进入阶段和实际进入阶段时，将对应的状态结束与跳转标志位置为无效，并将对应的规划进入标志位置和实际进入标志位置为有效。
在一个实施例中，根据更新后的状态信息，控制机器人在加速相、腾空相和减速相中各个不同的阶段进行切换的步骤包括：
当更新后的规划进入标志位有效时，结合更新后的状态名称，控制机器人进入对应的规划进入阶段，重置计时器，并生成初始质心规划轨迹；
当更新后的实际进入标志位有效时，结合更新后的状态名称，控制机器人进入对应的实际进入阶段，计算并记录机器人对应的运动参数信息；
当更新后的状态持续标志位有效时，结合更新后的状态名称，控制机器人进入对应的状态持续阶段，根据初始质心规划轨迹和运动参数信息进行质心轨迹规划和质心速度控制；
当更新后的状态结束与跳转标志位有效时，结合更新后的状态名称，控制机器人进入对应的状态结束与跳转阶段。
一种机器人的有限状态机，应用于机器人的连续跳跃模型，连续跳跃模型中机器人状态包括加速相、腾空相和减速相，有限状态机包括状态划分单元、事件检测单元、状态变更单元和行为处理单元，机器人的有限状态机包括：
状态划分单元，用于将每种机器人状态分别划分为规划进入阶段、实际进入阶段、状态持续阶段以及状态结束与跳转阶段；其中，加速相和减速相各自的规划进入阶段与对应的实际进入阶段分别相重合；
事件检测单元，用于对机器人在加速相、腾空相和减速相中各个不同阶段之间进行的状态切换进行检测，得到对应的状态检测结果；
状态变更单元，用于根据状态检测结果，更新机器人对应的状态信息；
行为处理单元，用于根据更新后的状态信息，控制机器人在加速相、腾空相和减速相中各个不同的阶段进行切换以控制机器人进行连续跳跃。
此外，还提供一种机器人，包括存储器以及处理器，存储器用于存储计算机程序，处理器运行计算机程序以使机器人执行上述建立方法。
此外，还提供一种可读存储介质，可读存储介质存储有计算机程序，计算机程序在被处理器运行时执行上述建立方法。
上述机器人的有限状态机的建立方法，应用于机器人的连续跳跃模型，连续跳跃模型中机器人状态包括加速相、腾空相和减速相，将每种机器人状态分别划分为规划进入阶段、实际进入阶段、状态持续阶段以及状态结束与跳转阶段；其中，加速相和减速相各自的规划进入阶段与对应的实际进入阶段分别相重合，对机器人在加速相、腾空相和减速相中各个不同阶段之间进行的状态切换进行检测，得到对应的状态检测结果，根据状态检测结果，更新机器人对应的状态信息，根据更新后的状态信息，控制机器人在加速相、腾空相和减速相中各个不同的阶段进行切换以控制机器人进行连续跳跃，能够通过将连续跳跃模型中每种机器人状态划分为规划进入阶段、实际进入阶段、状态持续阶段以及状态结束与跳转阶段，进而建立有限状态机，能够在机器人跳跃过程中实时获取下一时刻机器人的更新状态信息，进而输出机器人各关节的运动控制指令，使机器人根据上述运动指令在加速相、腾空相和减速相中各个不同阶段之间进行状态切换，把机器人状态的检测判定和状态切换的功能从机器人的控制算法中提取出来，作为一项单独的算法模块，与其它算法解耦，这使得机器人整体算法维护容易，对应的控制过程更为精确，最终实现机器人的可变高度跳跃、可变腾空时间跳跃、可变跳跃轨迹跳跃以及连续跳跃，大大提高了机器人连续跳跃的稳定性。
附图说明
为了更清楚地说明本发明的技术方案，下面将对实施例中所需要使用的附图作简单地介绍，应当理解，以下附图仅示出了本发明的某些实施例，因此不应被看作是对本发明保护范围的限定。在各个附图中，类似的构成部分采用类似的编号。
图1为一个实施例中提供的一种机器人的有限状态机的建立方法的流程示意图；
图2为一个实施例中提供的一种单腿机器人的结构示意图；
图3为一个实施例中提供的一种单腿机器人进行不同高度的连续跳跃过程示意图；
图4为一个实施例中在机器人足底突然加入未知高度木块时，单腿机器人对应的连续跳跃过程示意图；
图5为一个实施例中在机器人足底突然撤出未知高度木块时，单腿机器人对应的连续跳跃过程示意图；
图6为一个实施例中提供的一种机器人的有限状态机的结构框图。
具体实施方式
下面将结合本发明实施例中附图，对本发明实施例中的技术方案进行清楚、完整地描述，显然，所描述的实施例仅仅是本发明一部分实施例，而不是全部的实施例。
通常在此处附图中描述和示出的本发明实施例的组件可以以各种不同的配置来布置和设计。因此，以下对在附图中提供的本发明的实施例的详细描述并非旨在限制要求保护的本发明的范围，而是仅仅表示本发明的选定实施例。基于本发明的实施例，本领域技术人员在没有做出创造性劳动的前提下所获得的所有其他实施例，都属于本发明保护的范围。
在下文中，将更全面地描述本公开的各种实施例。本公开可具有各种实施例，并且可在其中做出调整和改变。然而，应理解：不存在将本公开的各种实施例限于在此公开的特定实施例的意图，而是应将本公开理解为涵盖落入本公开的各种实施例的精神和范围内的所有调整、等同物和/或可选方案。
在下文中，可在本发明的各种实施例中使用的术语“包括”、“具有”及其同源词仅意在表示特定特征、数字、步骤、操作、元件、组件或前述项的组合，并且不应被理解为首先排除一个或更多个其它特征、数字、步骤、操作、元件、组件或前述项的组合的存在或增加一个或更多个特征、数字、步骤、操作、元件、组件或前述项的组合的可能性。
此外，术语“第一”、“第二”、“第三”等仅用于区分描述，而不能理解为指示或暗示相对重要性。
除非另有限定，否则在这里使用的所有术语(包括技术术语和科学术语)具有与本发明的各种实施例所属领域普通技术人员通常理解的含义相同的含义。所述术语(诸如在一般使用的词典中限定的术语)将被解释为具有与在相关技术领域中的语境含义相同的含义并且将不被解释为具有理想化的含义或过于正式的含义，除非在本发明的各种实施例中被清楚地限定。
图1为一个实施例中提供的一种机器人的有限状态机的建立方法，应用于机器人的连续跳跃模型，连续跳跃模型中机器人状态包括加速相、腾空相和减速相，该机器人的有限状态机的建立方法包括：
步骤S110，将每种机器人状态分别划分为规划进入阶段、实际进入阶段、状态持续阶段以及状态结束与跳转阶段；其中，加速相和减速相各自的规划进入阶段与对应的实际进入阶段分别相重合。
其中，机器人在连续跳跃奔跑时，机器人状态通常包括加速相、腾空相和减速相，为更好的对机器人连续跳跃进行控制，这里将每一相分别划分为规划进入阶段、实际进入阶段、状态持续阶段以及状态结束与跳转阶段，这是基于机器人的运动特点和控制方面的需要所决定的。
其中，机器人在规划的离地时刻和机器人真实的离地时刻很可能不同，这是由于机器人系统和电机控制会产生的必不可少的误差和延误，而机器人真实离地时，需要记录机器人的高度、质心线速度和角速度等关键信息，因此，针对机器人由加速相到腾空相的切换状态，需要进一步区分，因而将上述机器人由加速相到腾空相的切换状态进一步区分为规划进入阶段和实际进入阶段，而对于加速相或减速相，为使得处理过程方便，机器人规划进入阶段和实际进入阶段的过程可认为相重合。
步骤S120，对机器人在加速相、腾空相和减速相中各个不同阶段之间进行的状态切换进行检测，得到对应的状态检测结果。
其中，机器人在每一相的四个阶段以及相邻相之间进行切换时，机器人对应的状态均不同，此时需要对机器人在加速相、腾空相和减速相中各个不同阶段之间进行的状态切换进行检测，得到对应的状态检测结果。
步骤S130，根据状态检测结果，更新机器人对应的状态信息。
其中，当获取到上述状态检测结果后，机器人的控制系统就需要及时的更新机器人对应的状态信息，及时的对机器人的跳跃过程做出控制。
其中，上述状态信息通常包括机器人在每个阶段所对应的状态标志位信息、状态计时信息以及状态名称。
步骤S140，根据更新后的状态信息，控制机器人在加速相、腾空相和减速相中各个不同的阶段进行切换以控制机器人进行连续跳跃。
其中，机器人在获取到更新后的状态信息后，能够进一步在对应的控制周期内生成对应的控制命令，以控制机器人在加速相、腾空相和减速相中各个不同的阶段进行切换，从而控制机器人进行连续跳跃。
在一个实施例中，如图2所示，提供了一种由两个串联弹性驱动器并联组成的单腿机器人100，每个串联弹性驱动器的关节位置、速度和关节末端转矩均可直接测量，其中，图2中110表示竖直导轨，120表示单个串联弹性驱动器，130表示试验地面，140表示压力传感器。
其中，实验地面130下的压力传感器主要用于客观测量单腿机器人100与实验地面之间作用力，从而计算单腿机器人100处于腾空相的腾空跳跃时间。
其中，单腿机器人100采用上述机器人的有限状态机的建立方法所建立的有限状态机，将每种机器人状态划分为规划进入阶段、实际进入阶段、状态持续阶段以及状态结束与跳转阶段，能够在单腿机器人100跳跃过程中实时获取下一时刻单腿机器人100的更新状态信息，进而输出单腿机器人100各关节的运动控制指令，使单腿机器人100根据上述运动指令在加速相、腾空相和减速相中各个不同阶段之间进行状态切换，进而能够对单腿机器人100的不同高度的连续跳跃，如图3中所示机器人在标号6-10过程中，相对于标号1-5过程实现了不同高度的连续跳。
其中，由于每一种机器人状态划分为多个阶段，单腿机器人100能够根据上述运动指令在加速相、腾空相和减速相中各个不同阶段之间进行状态切换，进而能够对机器人的跳跃高度、腾空时间和跳跃轨迹进行单独控制，连续跳跃过程中的抗干扰能力大大加强。
在一个实施例中，单腿机器人100腾空过程中，在机器人足底突然加入未知高度木块，这会导致单腿机器人100提前落地，然后在机器人足底突然撤出未知高度木块，这会导致单腿机器人100滞后落地，总之，单腿机器人100连续跳跃的动作会失控。
当使用上述有限状态机后，单腿机器人100会对腾空相中状态持续阶段与腾空相的结束与跳转阶段的切换时刻一直检测，当机器人足底与实验地面之间接触时，首先会进入腾空相的结束与跳转阶段，并在下一控制周期进入减速相中的规划进入阶段和实际进入阶段，然后执行后续的控制过程，整个机器人跳跃过程中的跳跃稳定性大大加强。
其中，图4中标号1-6为在机器人足底突然加入未知高度木块时对应的各个跳跃过程示意图，图5中标号1-6为在机器人足底突然撤出未知高度木块时对应的各个跳跃过程示意图。
上述机器人的有限状态机的建立方法，能够通过将连续跳跃模型中每种机器人状态划分为规划进入阶段、实际进入阶段、状态持续阶段以及状态结束与跳转阶段，进而建立有限状态机，能够在机器人跳跃过程中实时获取下一时刻机器人的更新状态信息，进而输出机器人各关节的运动控制指令，使机器人根据上述运动指令在加速相、腾空相和减速相中各个不同阶段之间进行状态切换，进而能够对机器人的跳跃高度、腾空时间和跳跃轨迹进行单独控制，把机器人状态的检测判定和状态切换的功能从机器人的控制算法中提取出来，作为一项单独的算法模块，与其它算法解耦，这使得机器人整体算法维护成本大大降低，对应的控制过程也更为精确简洁，在上述有限状态机的处理下，最终实现机器人的可变高度跳跃、可变腾空时间跳跃、可变跳跃轨迹跳跃以及连续跳跃，大大提高了机器人连续跳跃的稳定性，为双足和四足机器人的更多更复杂的跳跃奔跑实验提供了一个可靠的状态机模块框架。
在一个实施例中，步骤S120包括：
1)计算机器人的质心竖直方向速度并获取对应的速度方向和速度变化方向，判断质心竖直方向速度的大小是否大于预设速度阈值。
其中，在判断机器人是否处于加速相的状态持续阶段时，需要通过获取机器人的质心竖直方向速度并进行判断。
在一个实施例中，上述预设速度阈值取零，判断上述机器人的质心竖直方向速度是否大于零。
2)当质心竖直方向速度大于预设速度阈值且速度方向和对应的速度变化方向向上时，判断机器人处于加速相中的状态持续阶段。
其中，上述预设速度阈值理论上取值为零值，但实际应用过程中预设速度阈值取值可取值为接近零值附近的数值，换言之，当质心竖直方向速度大于上述预设速度阈值且速度方向和速度变化方向向上时，即可认为机器人处于加速相中的状态持续阶段。
在一个实施例中，预设速度阈值为零，当质心竖直方向速度大于零且速度方向和速度变化方向向上时，判断机器人处于加速相中的状态持续阶段。
其中，在加速相时，机器人开始向上加速，每一时刻，按照质心规划的位置(comp)，速度(comv)，加速度(coma)，通过逆动力学(Inverse Dynamics)和逆运动学(InverseKinematics)，计算得到各关节电机的指令。若是位置电机，计算出相应的关节角度，角速度，若是力控电机，则计算出关节转矩发送给电机。
3)根据质心加速度规划轨迹获取机器人从加速相进入腾空相的规划切换时刻并判断规划切换时刻是否到来，当规划切换时刻到来时，判断机器人进入加速相的状态结束与跳转阶段，并在下一控制周期进入腾空相的规划进入阶段。
其中，加速相的状态持续阶段下，机器人会一直进行离地检测，从加速相进入到腾空相，由于机器人的运动存在追踪误差，机器人存在规划离地时刻以及实际离地时刻，两者对应的时间往往不同，通常机器人的真实离地时间往往更晚。机器人首先按照质心加速度规划轨迹从加速相进入到腾空相，根据质心加速度规划轨迹能够获取机器人从加速相进入腾空相的规划切换时刻，并判断规划切换时刻是否到来，当规划切换时刻到来时，判断机器人进入加速相的状态结束与跳转阶段，当机器人的加速相的状态结束与跳转阶段结束后，在下一控制周期进入腾空相的规划进入阶段。
4)计算机器人足底与地面之间的竖直方向作用力并获取对应的作用力变化方向，判断竖直方向作用力是否小于或等于第一预设作用力阈值。
其中，机器人在实际进入腾空相时，机器人足底与地面之间的竖直方向作用力理论值为零且逐渐变小，但在实际处理中，上述第一预设作用力阈值取值可取值为接近零值的数值。
因此，通过计算机器人足底与地面之间的竖直方向作用力并获取对应的作用力变化方向，可判断机器人是否实际进入腾空相。
其中，上述机器人足底与地面之间的竖直方向作用力的测量通过安装的传感器进行测量。
5)当作用力变化方向为逐渐变小且竖直方向作用力小于或等于第一预设作用力阈值时，判断机器人进入腾空相的实际进入阶段。
在一个实施例中，上述第一预设作用力阈值取零值，上述作用力变化方向为逐渐变小且竖直方向作用力等于零时，判定机器人进入腾空相的实际进入阶段。
在一个实施例中，上述第一预设作用力阈值取接近零值的数值例如0.0001N，当作用力变化方向为逐渐变小且竖直方向作用力小于或等于0.0001N时，判断机器人进入腾空相的实际进入阶段。
6)当竖直方向作用力小于或等于第一预设作用力阈值且保持不变时，判断机器人处于腾空相的状态持续阶段。
7)当作用力变化方向为逐渐变大且竖直方向作用力大于或等于第二预设作用力阈值时，判断机器人进入腾空相的状态结束与跳转阶段，并在下一控制周期进入减速相的规划进入阶段和实际进入阶段。
其中，上述第二预设作用力阈值的理论值取零值，也可取接近零值的数值例如0.0001N，当作用力变化方向为逐渐变大且竖直方向作用力大于或等于0.0001N时，判断机进入腾空相的状态结束与跳转阶段，并在下一控制周期进入减速相的规划进入阶段和实际进入阶段。
其中，上述第一预设作用力阈值和第二预设作用力阈值的大小可取值相同。
其中，减速相的规划进入阶段和实际进入阶段可认为基本重合或相同，机器人进入腾空相的状态结束与跳转阶段后，在下一控制周期同时进入减速相的规划进入阶段和实际进入阶段。
8)当速度方向向下、对应的速度变化方向向上且质心竖直方向速度大于预设速度阈值时，判断机器人处于减速相中的状态持续阶段；
其中，机器人在由腾空相进入到减速相后，对应的质心竖直速度越来越小，而此时对应的速度变化方向处于向上状态，机器人处于减速状态，此时，只要质心竖直方向速度大于预设速度阈值时，可判断机器人仍然处于减速相中的状态持续阶段。
其中，上述预设速度阈值理论取值通常为零值，也可取接近零值的数值例如0.0001m/s。
9)当速度方向向下直至质心竖直方向速度小于或等于预设速度阈值时，判断机器人进入减速相中的状态结束与跳转阶段，并在下一控制周期进入加速相的规划进入阶段和实际进入阶段。
其中，加速相的规划进入阶段和实际进入阶段重合，机器人在进入减速相中的状态结束与跳转阶段后的下一控制周期同时进入加速相的规划进入阶段和实际进入阶段。
上述步骤展示的是按照机器人从加速相的状态持续阶段开始，对机器人在加速相、腾空相和减速相中各个不同阶段之间进行的状态切换进行检测以得到对应的状态检测结果的一种描述，按照以上顺序描述仅仅是为了符合逻辑习惯，实际检测过程中对于各个不同的阶段之间的切换检测也可同时进行，并行不悖，不以上述步骤顺序为限制。
在一个实施例中，机器人足底设置有压力传感器，步骤S124中计算机器人足底与地面之间的竖直方向作用力对应的计算公式为：

其中，Rfoot是机器人足底的姿态矩阵，是压力传感器测量值，表示竖直方向作用力。
在一个实施例中，机器人的各关节末端设置有转矩传感器，步骤S124中计算机器人足底与地面之间的竖直方向作用力对应的计算公式为：

其中，JT是机器人的质心相对于各关节的雅克比矩阵的转置矩阵，是利用转矩传感器得到的机器人的各关节受力矩组成的列向量，表示竖直方向作用力。
在一个实施例中，步骤S124中计算机器人的质心竖直方向速度对应的计算公式为：

其中，为机器人各关节各自对应的角速度，J是机器人的质心相对于各关节的雅克比矩阵，表示机器人的质心速度，质心竖直方向速度为的竖直方向分量。
其中，按照质心规划的位置(comp)、速度(comv)和加速度(coma)，通过逆动力学(Inverse Dynamics)和逆运动学(Inverse Kinematics)，计算得到各关节电机的指令，然后进一步得到机器人关节各自对应的角速度Θ。
在一个实施例中，状态信息包括状态名称、规划进入标志位、实际进入标志位、状态持续标志位以及状态结束与跳转标志位，步骤S130包括：
当状态检测结果为机器人处于加速相对应的状态持续阶段时，当且仅当将对应的状态持续标志位置为有效。
其中，在机器人处于所述加速相对应的状态持续阶段时，将规划进入标志位、实际进入标志位以及状态结束与跳转标志位均置为无效(清零)，当且仅当将对应的状态持续标志位置为有效。
当状态检测结果为机器人进入加速相的状态结束与跳转阶段时，将对应的状态结束与跳转标志位置为有效，并在下一控制周期机器人进入腾空相的规划进入阶段时，将对应的状态结束与跳转标志位置为无效，并将对应的规划进入标志位置为有效。
其中，状态结束与跳转阶段结束后，机器人在下一控制周期内进入腾空相的规划进入阶段，此时需要将对应的状态结束与跳转标志位置为无效，并将对应的规划进入标志位置为有效。
当状态检测结果为机器人进入腾空相的实际进入阶段时，将对应的规划进入标志位置为无效，并将对应的实际进入标志位置为有效，并在下一控制周期机器人处于腾空相的状态持续阶段时，将对应的实际进入标志位置为无效。
其中，在腾空相的实际进入阶段结束后，需要将实际进入标志置为无效，机器人进而在下一控制周期处于腾空相的状态持续阶段时，当且仅当将状态持续标志置为有效。
当状态检测结果为机器人进入腾空相的状态结束与跳转阶段时，将对应的状态结束与跳转标志位置为有效，并在下一控制周期机器人进入减速相的规划进入阶段和实际进入阶段时，将对应的状态结束与跳转标志位置为无效，并将对应的规划进入标志位置和实际进入标志位置为有效，并在机器人处于减速相的状态持续阶段时，将对应的规划进入标志位置和实际进入标志位置为无效，且将对应的状态持续标志位置为有效。
当状态检测结果为机器人进入减速相的状态结束与跳转阶段时，将对应的状态结束与跳转标志位置为有效，并在下一控制周期机器人进入加速相的规划进入阶段和实际进入阶段时，将对应的状态结束与跳转标志位置为无效，并将对应的规划进入标志位置和实际进入标志位置为有效。
在一个实施例中，步骤S140包括：
当更新后的规划进入标志位有效时，结合更新后的状态名称，控制机器人进入对应的规划进入阶段，重置计时器，并生成初始质心规划轨迹。
其中，机器人实时获取更新后的状态信息，当获取到更新后的规划进入标志位有效时，需要结合更新后的状态名称，控制机器人进入对应的规划进入阶段，重置计时器，并生成初始质心规划轨迹。
当对应的规划进入阶段结束后，将对应的规划进入标志置为无效。
当更新后的实际进入标志位有效时，结合更新后的状态名称，控制机器人进入对应的实际进入阶段，计算并记录机器人对应的运动参数信息。
其中，当控制机器人进入对应的实际进入阶段时，计算并记录机器人对应的运动参数信息，在控制机器人进入对应的实际进入阶段结束后，需要进一步将该实际进入标志位清零。
上述运动参数信息通常包括机器人进入对应的实际进入阶段时对应的质心高度信息以及质心速度信息。
当更新后的状态持续标志位有效时，结合更新后的状态名称，控制机器人进入对应的状态持续阶段，根据初始质心规划轨迹和运动参数信息进行质心轨迹规划和质心速度控制。
其中，当腾空相更新后的状态持续标志位有效时，结合更新后的状态名称，控制机器人进入对应的状态持续阶段，机器人进入腾空相的状态持续阶段，此时可根据初始质心规划轨迹和运动参数信息进行腾空相的质心轨迹规划和质心速度控制。
当更新后的状态结束与跳转标志位有效时，结合更新后的状态名称，控制机器人进入对应的状态结束与跳转阶段。
此外，如图6所示，还提供一种机器人的有限状态机200，应用于机器人的连续跳跃模型，连续跳跃模型中机器人状态包括加速相、腾空相和减速相，有限状态机200包括状态划分单元210、事件检测单元220、状态变更单元230和行为处理单元240，机器人的有限状态机200包括：
状态划分单元210用于将每种机器人状态分别划分为规划进入阶段、实际进入阶段、状态持续阶段以及状态结束与跳转阶段；其中，加速相和减速相各自的规划进入阶段与对应的实际进入阶段分别相重合；
事件检测单元220用于对机器人在加速相、腾空相和减速相中各个不同阶段之间进行的状态切换进行检测，得到对应的状态检测结果；
状态变更单元230用于根据状态检测结果，更新机器人对应的状态信息；
行为处理单元240用于根据更新后的状态信息，控制机器人在加速相、腾空相和减速相中各个不同的阶段进行切换以控制机器人进行连续跳跃。
此外，还提供一种机器人，包括存储器以及处理器，存储器用于存储计算机程序，处理器运行计算机程序以使机器人执行上述建立方法。
此外，还提供一种可读存储介质，可读存储介质存储有计算机程序，计算机程序在被处理器运行时执行上述建立方法。
在本申请所提供的几个实施例中，应该理解到，所揭露的装置和方法，也可以通过其它的方式实现。以上所描述的装置实施例仅仅是示意性的，例如，附图中的流程图和结构图显示了根据本发明的多个实施例的装置、方法和计算机程序产品的可能实现的体系架构、功能和操作。在这点上，流程图或框图中的每个方框可以代表一个模块、程序段或代码的一部分，所述模块、程序段或代码的一部分包含一个或多个用于实现规定的逻辑功能的可执行指令。也应当注意，在作为替换的实现方式中，方框中所标注的功能也可以以不同于附图中所标注的顺序发生。例如，两个连续的方框实际上可以基本并行地执行，它们有时也可以按相反的顺序执行，这依所涉及的功能而定。也要注意的是，结构图和/或流程图中的每个方框、以及结构图和/或流程图中的方框的组合，可以用执行规定的功能或动作的专用的基于硬件的系统来实现，或者可以用专用硬件与计算机指令的组合来实现。
另外，在本发明各个实施例中的各功能模块或单元可以集成在一起形成一个独立的部分，也可以是各个模块单独存在，也可以两个或更多个模块集成形成一个独立的部分。
所述功能如果以软件功能模块的形式实现并作为独立的产品销售或使用时，可以存储在一个计算机可读取存储介质中。基于这样的理解，本发明的技术方案本质上或者说对现有技术做出贡献的部分或者该技术方案的部分可以以软件产品的形式体现出来，该计算机软件产品存储在一个存储介质中，包括若干指令用以使得一台计算机设备(可以是智能手机、个人计算机、服务器、或者网络设备等)执行本发明各个实施例所述方法的全部或部分步骤。而前述的存储介质包括：U盘、移动硬盘、只读存储器(ROM，Read-Only Memory)、随机存取存储器(RAM，Random Access Memory)、磁碟或者光盘等各种可以存储程序代码的介质。
以上所述，仅为本发明的具体实施方式，但本发明的保护范围并不局限于此，任何熟悉本技术领域的技术人员在本发明揭露的技术范围内，可轻易想到变化或替换，都应涵盖在本发明的保护范围之内。