US9129158B1：

Description
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
(1) Field of Invention
The present invention relates to a system for embedding visual intelligence and, more particularly, to a system for embedding visual intelligence that enables machines to visually perceive and contemplate through visual intelligence modules and system integration.
(2) Description of Related Art
Visual processing is the flow of information from visual sensors to cognitive processing. Typical visual processing methods first decompose scenes into objects, track them, and then attempt to recognize spatio-temporal actions by using sophisticated hand-coded models. Since these models are either built manually or use a fixed structure (i.e., not extensible), they do not account for wide variations in actions, and cannot generalize to newer actions. Traditional symbolic reasoning systems rely heavily on hand-crafted domain specific knowledge, pre-defined symbolic descriptions, and the assumption that perception and reasoning are independent, sequential operations. However, real-world problems require richly intertwined dynamic methods for perception and reasoning in order to envision possible scenarios, acquire new knowledge, and augment cognitive capabilities.
The prior art described below include limitations in generic event representation; building concept hierarchies and graphical models for action understanding; and reasoning, envisionment, and grounding. For instance, regarding limitations of current spatio-temporal patterns, dynamics-based approaches to visual intelligence rely on optical flow patterns to segment and classify actions (see Literature Reference No. 73). These approaches model velocity patterns of humans (e.g., ballistic, spring-mass movements) and report 92% accuracy. However, this value was reported for 2 classes of actions, and the algorithm has not been shown to scale well with more classes and moving clutter. Motion history based approaches are generally computationally inexpensive (see Literature Reference Nos. 49, 50, 55, 74). However, these approaches suffer from needing an image alignment process to make the features position-invariant, thus making the method sensitive to noise in the silhouettes used. Pixel level “bag of words” based approaches also use space-time features from various sized video “cuboids’, the collection of which are used to represent the action in video (see Literature Reference Nos. 17, 18, 37). These approaches, however, disregard information on the spatial groupings of sub-blocks.
Regarding limitations of current spatio-temporal concepts, the use of AND/OR graphs (see Literature Reference Nos. 21, 41) for behavior recognition offer an elegant solution to represent structure. However, variation in expression of an action and across classes of action is not handled. Some approaches focus on human pose estimation and dynamics (see Literature Reference Nos. 40, 72). Unfortunately, they lack extensibility in generic action modeling. Use of Latent Semantic Analysis (see Literature Reference No. 53) offers unsupervised learning but lacks spatial and temporal invariance.
Regarding limitations of current reasoning, envisionment, and grounding systems, several cognitive architectures (see Literature Reference Nos. 1, 33) elucidate psychology experiments. However, they do not scale well to large problems and often lack the ability to store perceptual memories, including imagery. Case-based reasoning systems (see Literature Reference Nos. 4, 20, 67) can examine and produce perceptual symbols, but are typically built with little generalization across application domains. Probabilistic logic methods (see Literature Reference Nos. 28, 57) handle uncertainty well but require significant tuning for new domains, and can be computationally cumbersome. Existing symbolic representations of spatio-temporal actions (see Literature Reference Nos. 19, 63) can perform visual inspection, yet lack mental imagery capabilities.
Current approaches cannot accomplish the range of recognition, reasoning, and inference tasks described by the present invention. Thus, a continuing need exists for a system that integrates visual processing and symbolic reasoning to emulate visual intelligence.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
The present invention relates to a system for embedding visual intelligence. The system comprises one or more processors and a memory having instructions such that when the instructions are executed, the one or more processors perform operations of first receiving an input video comprising input video pixels representing at least one action and at least one object having a location. Microactions are generated from the input image using a set of motion sensitive filters. A relationship between the input video pixels and the microactions is learned in an unsupervised manner. A set of spatio-temporal concepts from the microactions is learned in an unsupervised manner. The system then learns, from the microactions, a set of concept hierarchies comprising spatio-temporal action concepts and a set of causal relationships between the spatio-temporal action concepts in an automatic, unsupervised manner using concept learning techniques. Additionally, the system learns to acquire new knowledge from the spatio-temporal action concepts using mental imagery models in an unsupervised manner. Finally, a visual output is presented to a user based on the learned set of spatio-temporal action concepts and the new knowledge to aid the user in visually comprehending the at least one action in the input video.
In another aspect, the visual output is at least one of a video and a textual description.
In another aspect, the system further comprises a spatio-temporal representations module for capturing event-invariant information in the input video using a series of filtering and max operations in repeating layers; an attention model module for generating video masks to focus attention of the spatio-temporal representations module to specific areas of the input video in order to generate the microactions; and a concept learning module for stringing together the microactions to compose full actions and learning of the set of concept hierarchies through structure learning.
In another aspect, the system further comprises a visual object recognition module for determining the location of the at least one object in the input video; and a hypothesis module for generating at least one hypothesis of the at least one action based on known concepts and the at least one object in the input video.
In another aspect, the system further comprises a visual inspection module for comparing the at least one hypothesis with the input video; a validation module for validating the at least one hypothesis using feedback from the visual inspection module; and an envisionment module for generating envisioned imagery of the at least one hypothesis to reason and gain new knowledge.
In another aspect, the system further comprises a knowledgebase module for storing domain knowledge, the hierarchy of action concepts from the concept learning module, and knowledge generated from reasoning on the envisioned imagery; a dialog processing module for parsing at least one input text query; and a symbolic reasoning module for locating answers to the at least one input text query in the knowledgebase module and outputting a textual description.
In another aspect, the set of concept hierarchies comprises a plurality of nodes, where each node represents a cluster of microactions.
The invention further comprises a video processing subsystem for a taskable smart camera system to be utilized with the system above comprising a video processor module, a camera module separate from the video processor module, and a common interface between the video processor module and the camera module.
As can be appreciated by one in the art, the present invention also comprises a method for causing a data processor to perform the acts described herein. The acts can be performed as operations that are performed by the data processor upon execution of code that is stored in a memory.
As can be appreciated by one in the art, the present invention also comprises a computer program product comprising computer-readable instruction means stored on a non-transitory computer-readable medium that are executable by a computer having a processor for causing the processor to perform the operations described herein.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
The objects, features and advantages of the present invention will be apparent from the following detailed descriptions of the various aspects of the invention in conjunction with reference to the following drawings, where:
FIG. 1 is a block diagram depicting a system for embedding visual intelligence according to the present invention;
FIG. 2 is a detailed block diagram depicting a system for embedding visual intelligence according to the present invention;
FIG. 3 illustrates a spatio-temporal representation of video flow according to the present invention;
FIG. 4A illustrates an action-concept hierarchy according to the present invention;
FIG. 4B illustrates a Partially Dynamic Bayesian Network (PDBN) representing static and dynamic nodes according to the present invention;
FIG. 5A illustrates schema binding according to the present invention;
FIG. 5B illustrates envisionment with transcription according to the present invention;
FIG. 6 is a diagram of a smart camera subsystem according to the present invention;
FIG. 7 illustrates a video processor subsystem architecture according to the present invention;
FIG. 8 is an illustration of a data processing system according to the present invention; and
FIG. 9 is an illustration of a computer program product according to the present invention.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
The present invention relates to a method and system that enables machines to visually perceive and contemplate through visual intelligence modules and system integration. The following description is presented to enable one of ordinary skill in the art to make and use the invention and to incorporate it in the context of particular applications. Various modifications, as well as a variety of uses, in different applications will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art, and the general principles defined herein may be applied to a wide range of embodiments. Thus, the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments presented, but is to be accorded with the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein.
In the following detailed description, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a more thorough understanding of the present invention. However, it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without necessarily being limited to these specific details. In other instances, well-known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form, rather than in detail, in order to avoid obscuring the present invention.
The reader's attention is directed to all papers and documents which are filed concurrently with this specification and which are open to public inspection with this specification, and the contents of all such papers and documents are incorporated herein by reference. All the features disclosed in this specification, (including any accompanying claims, abstract, and drawings) may be replaced by alternative features serving the same, equivalent or similar purpose, unless expressly stated otherwise. Thus, unless expressly stated otherwise, each feature disclosed is one example only of a generic series of equivalent or similar features.
Furthermore, any element in a claim that does not explicitly state “means for” performing a specified function, or “step for” performing a specific function, is not to be interpreted as a “means” or “step” clause as specified in 35 U.S.C. Section 112, Paragraph 6. In particular, the use of “step of” or “act of” in the claims herein is not intended to invoke the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112, Paragraph 6.
Please note, if used, the labels left, right, front, back, top, bottom, forward, reverse, clockwise and counter-clockwise have been used for convenience purposes only and are not intended to imply any particular fixed direction. Instead, they are used to reflect relative locations and/or directions between various portions of an object. As such, as the present invention is changed, the above labels may change their orientation.
(1) LIST OF CITED LITERATURE REFERENCES
The following references are cited throughout this application. For clarity and convenience, the references are listed herein as a central resource for the reader. The following references are hereby incorporated by reference as though fully included herein. The references are cited in the application by referring to the corresponding literature reference number, as follows:
1. Anderson, J R, Bothell, D, Byrne, M D, Douglass, S, Lebiere, C, Qin, Y. 2004. An integrated theory of the mind. Psychological Review 11 i, (4). 1036-1060.
2. Azuma, R., Hoff, B., Neely, H., Sarfaty, R. A Motion-Stabilized Outdoor Augmented Reality System. Proceedings of IEEE VR '99 (Houston, Tex., 13-17 Mar. 1999), 252-259.
3. Azuma, R., Neely, H., Hoff, B., Sarfaty, R., Direct Visualization of Spatial Information in Outdoor Scenes, Proceedings of GOMAC-2000.
4. Barkowsky, T. 2007. Modeling mental spatial knowledge processing: An Al perspective. In: F. Mast and L. Jaenke (Eds.), Spatial processing in navigation, imagery, and perception. Berlin: Springer.
5. Belkin M, Niyogi P. 2003. Laplacian Eigenmaps for Dimensionality Reduction and Data Representation, Neural Computation, 15(6):1373-1396, 2003 June
6. Bechtel, R. & Koss, F. (2009). TEAL Phase 11 Final Report. Contract Number W56HZV-07-C-0516, TACOM-Warren US Army TARDEC.
7. Blackman S, Popli R. 1999. Design and Analysis of Modern Tracking Systems, Artech House, Norwood Mass., ISBN 1-58053-006-0.
8. Bobick A F, Davis J W. 2001. The recognition of human movement using temporal templates. IEEE Trans. on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence 23(3):257-267, 2001 March
9. Cheng S Y., Trivedi M M. 2006. Turn-Intent Analysis Using Body Pose for Intelligent Driver Assistance, IEEE Pervasive Computing, 5(4):28-37, 2006 October-December
10. Cheng S Y, Trivedi M M. 2007. Articulated Human Body Pose Inference from Voxel Data Using a Kinematically Constrained Gaussian Mixture Model, In CVPR EHuM2: 2nd Workshop on Evaluation of Articulated Human Motion and Pose Estimation, 2007.
11. Cheng S Y, Daily M, Owechko Y, Medasani S, Bonefas Z. 2009. Video-based obstacle detection for coordi-nated machines. IFAC BioRobotics 4, 2009 Sep.
12. Chikkerur S, Serre T, Poggio T, A. 2009. Bayesian inference theory of attention: neuroscience and algorithms,” CBCL-280 MIT-CSAIL-TR-2009-047.
13. Curtis, J, Matthews, G, Baxter, D. 2005. On the Effective Use of Cyc in a Question Answering System. In: Papers from the IJCAI Workshop on Knowledge and Reasoning for Answering Questions. Edinburgh, Scotland.
14. Dalal N, Triggs B, Schmid, C. 2006. Human Detection Using Oriented Histograms of Flow and Appearance, Proceedings of the European Conference for Computer Vision, 2006.
15. Derbinsky N, Laird J E. 2008. Efficiently Implementing Episodic Memory Case-Based Reasoning Research and Development, 403-417.
16. Derbinsky N, Laird J E. 2009. Efficiently Implementing Episodic Memory International Conference on Case-Based Reasoning, ICCBR, 2009.
17. Dollar P, Rabaud V, Cottrell G, Belongie S. 2005. Behavior Recognition via Sparse Spatio-Temporal Features. In Proc. of IEEE Int'l Conf. on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2005 June, San Diego.
18. Duchenne O, Laptev I, Sivic J, Bach F, Ponce J. 2009. Automatic Annotation of Human Actions in Video. In Proc. of IEEE Int'l Conference on Computer Vision, 2009.
19. François, A R, Nevatia, R, Hobbs, J R, Bolles, R C. 2005. VERL: An Ontology Framework for Representing and Annotating Video Events. IEEE MultiMedia 12(4): 76-86.
20. Glasgow, J., Papadias, D. 1992. Computational Imagery. Cognitive Science, 16, 355-394.
21. Gupta A, Srinivasan P, Shi J and Larry S. Davis Understanding Videos, Constructing Plots—Learning a Visually Grounded Storyline Model from Annotated Videos, Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition 2009.
22. Gupta A, Kembhavi A and Larry S. Davis, Observing Human-Object Interactions: Using Spatial and Functional Compatibility for Recognition. IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence (Special Issue on Probabilistic Graphical Models), October 2009, 1775-1789.
23. Harabagiu, S M, Miller, G A, Moldovan, D I. 1999. WordNet 2—A Morphologically and Semantically Enhanced Resource. In Proc. of the ACL SIGLEX Workshop: Standardizing Lexical Resources, pp. 1-8.
24. Hinton G E, Salakhutdinov R R. 2006. Reducing the dimensionality of data with neural networks. Science, 313:504-507.
25. Hinton G E, Osindero S, Teh Y. 2006. A fast learning algorithm for deep belief nets. Neural Computation 18: 1527-1554.
26. Hoiem D, Efros A A, Hebert M. 2008 Putting Objects in Perspective. International Journal of Computer Vision, 2008.
27. Itti L, Koch C. 2001. Computational Modeling of Visual Attention. Nature Reviews Neuroscience 2(3): 194-203.
28. Jøsang, A., 2008, “Conditional Reasoning with Subjective Logic,” Journal of Multiple-Valued Logic and Soft Computing, 15(1), pp. 5-38.
29. Jhuang H., T. Serre, L. Wolf and T. Poggio. A Biologically Inspired System for Action Recognition, In: Proceedings of the Eleventh IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV), 2007.
30. Kemp C, Tenenbaum J B, Griffiths T L, Yamada T, Ueda N. 2006. Learning systems of concepts with an infinite relational model. In AAAI Proceedings of the Twenty-First National Conference on Artificial Intelligence, 2006.
31. Kemp C. Tenenbaum J B. 2008. The discovery of structural form. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. 105(31), 10687-10692.
32. Kersten, D, Yuille A. 2003. Bayesian models of object perception. Current Opinion in Neurobiology, 13(2), 1-9.
33. Kieras, D E, Meyer, D E 1997. An Overview of the EPIC Architecture for Cognition and Performance with Application to Human-Computer Interaction. Human-Computer Interaction, 12, 391-483.
34. Krishnapuram R, Medasani S: Jung S, Choi Y, Balasubramaniam, R. 2004. Content-based image retrieval based on a fuzzy approach. IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering (TKDE), 2004 October, 1185-1199.
35. Laird J E. 2001. It Knows What You're Going To Do: Adding Anticipation to a Quakebot. Proc. Of the 5th International Conference of Autonomous Agents, 2001.
36. Laird J E. 2009. Millions of Rules, Billions of Decisions. Presented at the 49th Soar Workshop. sitemaker.umich.edu/soar/files/laird2-millions-updated.pdf
37. Laptev I, Marszalek M, Schmid C, Rozenfeld B. 2008. Learning Realistic Human Actions from Movies. In Proc. of IEEE Int'l Conf. on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2008.
38. Lathrop S C, Laird J E. 2007. Towards Incorporating Visual Imagery into a Cognitive Architecture. Proc. Of the 8th International Conference on Cognitive Modeling, 2007.
39. Lavee G, Rivlin E, Rudzsky M. 2009. Understanding Video Events: A Survey of Methods for Automatic Interpretation of Semantic Occurrences in Video, Technion Computer Science Department, Technical Report CIS 2009-06.
40. Lee M W; Nevatia R. 2009. Human Pose Tracking in Monocular Sequence Using Multilevel Structured Models. IEEE Trans. on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence, 31(1):27-38.
41. Lin Y, Druzdel M. 1997. Computational Advantages of Relevance Reasoning in Bayesian Belief Networks. Proceedings of the 13th Conference on Uncertainty in Artificial Intelligence.
42. Lin L, Gong H, Li L, Wang L. 2009 Semantic event representation and recognition using syntactic attribute graph grammar. Physical Review Letters, 2009.
43. Lu T C, Przytula W. 2006. Focusing Strategies for Multiple fault Diagnosis. Proceedings of the 19th International FLAIRS Conference (FLAIRS 06), p.p. 842-847, Melbourne Beach, Fla., May, 2006.
44. Mansinghka V K, Kemp C, Tenenbaum J B., and Griffiths T L. 2006. Structured priors for structure learning. Proceedings of the Twenty-Second Conference on Uncertainty in Artificial Intelligence (UAI 2006).
45. Markman E. 1989 Naming and Categorization in Children (MIT Press, Cambridge, Mass.).
46. Medasani S, and Krishnapuram R. 2001. Graph Matching by Relaxation of Fuzzy Assignments. IEEE Trans on Fuzzy Systems, 9(1), 173-183, 2001 February
47. Medasani S, Krishnapuram R. 2001. Image Categorization for Efficient Retrieval using Robust Mixture Decomposition. Computer Vision and Image Understanding. 83(3):216-235, 2001.
48. Medasani S, Owechko Y. 2006. Graphical Swarms for Behavior Recognition. Proc. of IEEE Swarm Intelligence Symposium, 2006.
49. Meng H, Pears N, Freeman M, Bailey C. 2008. Motion history Histograms for Human Action Recognition, Embedded Computer Vision, London 2008, ISBN 978-1-84800-303-3.
50. Moeslund T B, Hilton A, Kruger V. 2006. A survey of advances in vision-based human motion capture and analysis, Computer Vision and Image Understanding, 104:90-126, 2006.
51. Loopy belief-propagation for approximate inference: An empirical study. K. Murphy, Y. Weiss, and M. I. Jordan. In K. B. Laskey and H. Prade (Eds.), Uncertainly in Artificial Intelligence (UAI), Proceedings of the Fifteenth Conference, San Mateo, Calif.: Morgan Kaufmann, 1999.
52. Mutch J, Knoblich U, Poggio T. 2010. CNS: a GPU-based framework for simulating cortically-organized networks. MIT-CSAIL-TR-2010-013/CBCL-286, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Mass., 2010 Feb. 26.
53. Niebles, J., Wang, H. Fei-Fei, L. Unsupervised Learning of Human Action Categories Using Spatial-Temporal Words, BMVC 2006.
54. Nuxoll A M, Laird J E. 2007. Extending Cognitive Architecture with Episodic Memory. Proc. Of 21st National Conference on AI.
55. Ogata T, Tan J K, Shikawa S. 2006. High-Speed Human motion recognition based on motion history Image and an Eigenspace, IEICE Trans. On Information and Systems, 2006.
56. Rasmussen C. 2000. The infinite Gaussian mixture model. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 12.
57. Richardson M., Domingos P. 2006. Markov logic networks. Machine Learning, 62:107-136.
58. Rosenbloom P S, Laird J E, Newell A. 1993. The Soar Papers: Research on Integrated Intelligence, MIT Press, Cambridge, Mass. 1993.
59. Rosch E. 1978. Principles of categorization. Cognition and Categorization, Ed. Rosch E, Lloyd B B (Lawrence Erlbaum, New York), pp 27-48.
60. Serre T, Wolf L, Bileschi S, Riesenhuber M, Poggio T. 2007. Object Recognition with Cortex-like Mechanisms, IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence, 29, 3, 411-426, 2007.
61. Serre T, Giese M. 2007. Rapid Serial Action Presentation: New paradigm for the study of movement recognition. VSS, May 2007.
62. Sidner, C., Lee, C. 2003. An Architecture for Engagement in Collaborative Conversations between a Robot and Humans. Technical Report TR2003-012, MERL.
63. St. Amant, R, Morrison, C T, Chang Y H, Cohen, P R, and Beal, C. 2006. An image schema language. Proceedings of the Seventh International Conference on Cognitive Modeling, pp. 292-297.
64. Sundareswara R. Schrater P. Bayesian Averaging of Sampled 3D Reconstructions leads to Better Accuracy. Computer Vision and Image Understanding. (under review)
65. Sundareswara R., Schrater P 2008. Perceptual Multistability predicted by search model for Bayesian Decisions, Journal of Vision, May 2008.
66. S. Wintermute and J. Laird, An overview of Spatial Processing in Soar/SVS, Technical Report CCA-TR-2009-01, Center for Cognitive Architecture, Univ. Of Michigan, Ann Arbor, 2009.
67. Tabachneck-Schijf, H J, Leonardo, A M, Simon, H A. 1997. CaMeRa: A computational model of multiple representations. Cognitive Science, 21(3), 305-350.
68. Takikawa, M, D'Ambrosio B, and Wright E. Real-Time Inference with Large-Scale Temporal Bayes Nets. Proceedings of the 18th UAI Conference, 2002.
69. Taylor G, Quist M, Furtwangler S, Knudsen K. 2007. Toward a Hybrid Cultural Cognitive Architecture. Proc. Of 1st International Workshop on Cognition and Culture at CogSci, 2007.
70. Tillman R E, Danks D, Glymour C. 2009. Integrating locally learned causal structures with overlapping variables. Proc. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 21 (NIPS 2008).
71. Tipping M E. 2001. Sparse Kernel Principal Component Analysis, Neural Information Processing Systems, 2001.
72. Tran S, Davis L. Visual event modeling and recognition using Markov logic networks. European Conference on Computer Vision, 2008.
73. Vitaladevuni S N, Kellokumpu S, Davis L S. 2008. Action Recognition Using Ballistic Dynamics, In Proc. of the Int'l Conf. on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition Conference, 2008.
74. Weinland D, Ronfard R, Boyer E. 2006 Free Viewpoint Action Recognition using Motion History Volumes. Computer Vision and Image Understanding, 2006 Oct. 16.
75. Wintermute S, Laird J E. 2007. Predicate Projection in a Bimodal Spatial Reasoning System. In Proc. of the 3rd Artificial Intelligence and Interactive Digital Entertainment Conference, 2007.
76. Wray, R., Crossman, J., & Zaientz, J. (in production). Cognitive Fusion Phase II Final Report. Contract Number FA8750-07-C-0160, AFRL Rome Laboratory.
77. Yedidia J S, Freeman W T, Weiss, Y, 2003 Understanding Belief Propagation and Its Generalizations, Exploring Arlifcial Intelligence in the New Millennium, ISBN 1558608117, Chap. 8, pp. 239-236, 2003 January
(2) PRINCIPAL ASPECTS
The present invention has three “principal” aspects. The first is a system for embedding visual intelligence into processing stages of a spatio-temporal visual stream. The system is typically in the form of a computer system, computer component, or computer network operating software or in the form of a “hard-coded” instruction set. This system may take a variety of forms with a variety of hardware devices and may include computer networks, handheld computing devices, cellular networks, satellite networks, and other communication devices. As can be appreciated by one skilled in the art, this system may be incorporated into a wide variety of devices that provide different functionalities. The second principal aspect is a method for embedding visual intelligence into processing stages of a spatio-temporal visual stream, typically in the form of software, operated using a data processing system (computer or computer network). The third principal aspect is a computer program product. The computer program product generally represents computer-readable instruction means (instructions) stored on a non-transitory computer-readable medium such as an optical storage device, e.g., a compact disc (CD) or digital versatile disc (DVD), or a magnetic storage device such as a floppy disk or magnetic tape. Other, non-limiting examples of computer-readable media include hard disks, read-only memory (ROM), and flash-type memories.
The term “instruction means” as used with respect to this invention generally indicates a set of operations to be performed on a computer, and may represent pieces of a whole program or individual, separable, software modules. Non-limiting examples of “instruction means” include computer program code (source or object code) and “hard-coded” electronics (i.e. computer operations coded into a computer chip). The “instruction means” may be stored in the memory of a computer or on a non-transitory computer-readable medium such as a floppy disk, a CD-ROM, and a flash drive.
(2) SPECIFIC DETAILS
(2.1) Introduction
The present invention can learn from visual experience to perceive a variety of useful actions, handle their myriad manifestations and contexts, contemplate and reason with plausible depictions, and augment symbolic knowledge. The system described herein overcomes previous limitations, and enables a versatile and complete solution intrinsically addressing the spatial and temporal complexity problems inherent to visual intelligence, by embedding unsupervised learning into three critical processing stages of the spatio-temporal visual stream. The high-level systems integration concept will allow known and candidate visual intelligence approaches to be integrated with known camera subsystems, while remaining within size, weight, and power constraints appropriate for vehicle applications (e.g., unmanned ground vehicles).
While there exist known methods for pure symbolic reasoning or pure perceptual processing, the present invention handles both ends of the spectra in a more integrated manner. The approach is focused in making machines visually intelligent, allowing them to contemplate and engage in abstract thought. The system gains general intelligence by learning representations in compositional increments and addresses inference and reasoning from low to higher levels of abstraction. This effective modeling of the dynamic interactions and rich intertwines between perceptual and symbolic reasoning modes helps achieve a higher level of cognition. The invention described herein focuses on using mental imagery models to fluidly transfer information across symbolic reasoning and visual reasoning/processing modules, which allows envisioning and reasoning with dynamically changing information.
The present invention embeds learning into three critical processing states of the spatio-temporal visual stream. First, learning of generic representations of microactions from a holistic view of the salient segments in a video, so it can provide a compact representation that facilitates understanding of actions and can be acquired unsupervised. Second, automatic learning of concept hierarchies and causal relations from microactions and their inter-relationships. This innovation uses weakly labeled data and concept learning techniques to automatically learn the hierarchical and causal relationships between actions which, in turn, provides the ability to innately handle the various manifestations of the nuances in the actions. Third, using mental imagery-based processes to model dynamic interactions between visual processing modules and symbolic reasoning modules, so the system can reason through plausible explanations while being grounded in its beliefs and goals. This step uses using mental imagery models to fluidly transfer information from symbolic and visual reasoning modules. Each of these states will be described in further detail below.
Furthermore, the present invention describes a taskable smart camera system that can visually perceive, contemplate, and respond to queries pertaining to observed events using visual intelligence software modules as part of an integrated system. A smart camera is a vision system which is capable of extracting application-specific information from captured images, along with generating event descriptions of making decisions used in an automated system.
FIG. 1 is a block diagram depicting a method and system 100 for embedding visual intelligence. Input to the system described herein consists of input video 101 and input queries 102 (e.g., text-queries). Videos of interest (i.e., input video 101) contain events that can be modeled using actors and other objects that can be described in the form of sentences of the form S-V-(O)-(PP), where S is for subject noun, V is for verb, O is for object noun and PP is for prepositional phrase. Parentheses indicate optional sentence components. Non-limiting examples of “operationally” relevant sentences are “Man entered building,” “Woman gave device to man,” or “Vehicle stops on road.” Input text-queries elicit information from the system regarding the observed videos
There are three types of queries in the present invention, and each returns a different type of information. The first type of query is an existence of concepts. A concept consists of the constituent parts of a sentence or the sentence itself. For example, any and all parts to the sentence, “Man entered building” provide an example of a concept. A query of existence may be of the form: “Did you see the “man”? Did you see anyone “enter”? Did you see any “vehicles stop on the road”? Response information is returned from the system in the form of video clips capturing, animations depicting, and text description responses describing the concepts. The second type of query is a text description of concepts (e.g., S-V-(O)-(PP)). The third type of query is a graphical visualization (i.e., animation) of concepts (e.g., S-V-(O)-(PP)). The queries (i.e., input video 101 and input query 102) are digitally processed 104. Digital processing 104 refers to signal conditioning of an input video 101 and/or an input query (i.e., text). Visual attention models 106 are then generated. Visual attention models 106 refer to modules that estimate volumes of video that humans may find interesting using a computation model of the primate visual pathway.
The main theme in the present invention is unsupervised learning of generalized action concepts in compositional increments. Action perception is viewed as a composition of three stages with each stage providing increasing levels of abstraction from the input. The three stages map to critical elements in the visual intelligence block diagram shown in FIG. 1. The first stage, visual event learning 108, contains neural spatio-temporal signatures, microaction clusters 110, and learning filters for actions 112. Neural spatio-temporal signatures consist of the output of several motion sensitive filters. The visual event learning 108 stage focuses on abstracting from video pixels of an input video 101 to an internal representation called microactions (or microaction clusters 110) that serve as a foundation for generic event representation. The microaction clusters 110 are generated using a unique set of motion sensitive filters (learning filters for actions 112) that are position and scale invariant and self-organize to form an alphabet from which the different events can be represented. Learning filters for action 112 refers to the development of position and scale invariance within each filter. Microaction clusters 110 refer to grouping similar filter response vectors.
The second stage of abstraction, spatio-temporal patterns 114, builds on the microaction clusters 110 space and learns concepts through structure learning 116 for the domain of actions. Structure learning 116 refers to a method that automatically discovers generative models for concepts from microaction sequences. The spatio-temporal patterns 114 contain Hidden Markov Models (HMMs) for primitive actions 126, structure learning, 116, and concept hierarchies 118. HMMs for primitive actions 126 consist of graphical models of actions where nodes represent states, and edges represent transitions between states.
Inspired by concept learning in humans, the data-driven structure learning method automatically discovers generative models for concepts, their organization hierarchy (concept hierarchies 118), and causal relationships. Concept hierarchies 118 refer to the output of structure learning 116, which encode relationships between actions, or a set of spatio-temporal action concepts. The third stage of abstraction, which is envisionment and grounding 128, contains recognition 130, hypothesis generation 120, and hypothesis pruning 122. The envisionment and grounding 128 stage uses mental imagery processes to envision and reason through plausible alternatives (i.e., hypothesis generation 120, hypothesis pruning 122) and discover new knowledge. Recognition 130 consists of belief propagation on graphical models from the spatio-temporal patterns 114 stage. Hypothesis generation 120 refers to initiating several paths within the graphical models from the spatio-temporal patterns 114 stage. Hypothesis pruning 122 refers to removing one or more paths within the graphical models from the spatio-temporal patterns 114 stage based on constraints from symbolic reasoning.
Lastly, these modules are supported by computer vision, automated reasoning, declarative knowledgebase, and visual memory supporting modules 132. Computer vision 134 refers to modules whose functions include object recognition, fingerprinting, and tracking. Automated reasoning 136 refers to modules whose functions include symbolic reasoning and natural language processing. Further, declarative knowledgebase 138 refers to a store of domain knowledge, the hierarchy of action concepts from the concept learning module, and knowledge generated from reasoning on the envisioned imagery, which will be described in further detail below. Visual memory 140 refers to a store of previously seen episodes, or avatars and scenes, which can played back or envisioned respectively.
The mental imagery processes are based on functional models that explain visuospatial cognition in humans and allow for effective modeling of the rich interactions between visual and symbolic reasoning. The learned concepts and contemplations are presented to a user as a visual output, which may include a video rendering (output videos 124) and/or a video description 125 (e.g., textual description) to aid the user in visually comprehending actions. Knowledge acquired through visual experience is then grounded with symbolic knowledge to augment and evolve the cognitive capability. Models for spatio-temporal visual attention and intention that focus on segments of interest in the action sequences serve to prime the system. Each of these aspects will be described in further detail below.
A detailed block diagram of the present invention is shown in FIG. 2. Each image in an input video 101 travels along three parallel paths in the system. The first path is through an attention model module 200 and a spatio-temporal representations module 202. The attention model module 200 generates video masks to focus the attention of the spatio-temporal representations module 202 to certain areas of the input video 101. The spatio-temporal representations module 202 captures event-invariant information in video using a series of filtering and max operations in repeating layers, gradually building up selectivity and invariance to spatial and temporal variations of moving objects in a scene of the input video 101.
The attention model module 200 and spatio-temporal representations module 202 return microaction 204 activation signals that are used by the next module, the concept learning module 206. Microactions 204 are video primitives that comprise components of the sentence. Microactions 204 represent a dictionary of primitive features, and combinations of these microactions 204 strung in parallel and in sequence represent full actions, as will be described in further detail below. The attention model module 200 and the spatio-temporal representation module 202 work hand-in-hand to generate discriminative microactions 204 primitives unpolluted by scene clutter.
The concept learning module 206 is an automated mechanism to compose microactions 204 and learn a hierarchy of action concepts (concept hierarchies 118 in FIG. 1). It uses a structure learning (116 in FIG. 1) mechanism to accomplish the stringing together of microactions 204 to compose actions and to learn a hierarchy of actions or a set of spatio-temporal action concepts 208. The hierarchy from the concept learning module 206 is then used to populate and augment the declarative knowledgebase module 210, which is a long-term store of concepts which are both relevant and frequent. The declarative knowledgebase module 210 stores domain knowledge, action hierarchy from the concept learning module 206, and knowledge generated from reasoning on envisioned imagery.
The dialog processing module 212 and the symbolic reasoning module 214 parse input text facilitative commands 216 presented to the system (e.g. Did a man enter a building? Describe what action occurred, etc.), inform other components to return relevant responses, and return appropriate output textual descriptions 218 and relevant output videos 220 from a video database 222, if any. The symbolic reasoning module 214 uses the declarative knowledgebase 210 to find answers to textual queries 216. The digital processing module (digital processing 104 in FIG. 1) is a textual processing engine that parses input text queries 216.
The second path of the input video 101 is through a series of visual object recognition 224 algorithms generating the locations of objects in imagery. The locations of objects in the individual frames of the input video 101 as well as in a sequence of videos represent the nouns in the concepts. These object locations along with current concepts can be used to hypothesize, interpolate, and predict possible alternatives in a hypothesize module 226. Using the hypothesize module 226, current objects in a scene and known concepts are used to hypothesize possible actions.
The possible contemplations can be validated using the third pathway, the visual inspection pathway, which is part of the envisionment mental imagery processes 228. Envisionment refers to the ability to create renderings of currently seen actions as well as contemplated scenarios. Further, envisionment allows for the system to visualize a contemplated hypothesis so that it can reason on the contemplation and gain more knowledge. The output of this pathway includes contemplated videos 229. The visual inspection module 230 is composed of the interaction between input videos 101 and models of actions from the hypothesize module 226 and the validation module 232. In other words, the input videos 101 are inspected against models of actions. With the validation module 202, contemplated hypotheses are validated using feedback from the visual inspection module 230 and the hypothesize module 226. The first path 234 represents a bottom-up, data-driven process of matching video to models, while the second path 236 represents a top down, model-driven process of verifying models. The output of these modules represents the probabilities to possible actions, or “verbs” of sentences in the reasoning module 238, which reasons on contemplated imagery 240.
In summary, the system of the present invention will take in input videos and optional input text and process the inputs to generate a video rendering and/or textual description/message as a visual output. As a non-limiting example, the system generates a textual message, which could also be accompanied by a rendered video to help explain the situation to the user. The textual message serves as an alert to the user that a certain expression of behavior has occurred in a scene of the input video. Alternatively, if a user is only interested in receiving rendered video as the visual output (as opposed to a textual description), the user sets up the system so that the system will only generate the selected output.
The innovations described below overcome previous limitations, enabling a versatile and complete solution by embedding unsupervised learning at three critical stages in the visual perception pipeline. The innovations can be summarized into the following key points. First, build a position- and time-invariant spatio-temporal representation by extending the neuroscience-inspired CBCL model that allows complex movement concepts to be captured. Second, develop an unsupervised learning method for hierarchical and causal organization of action concepts by finding relevant form and structure using Bayesian inference. Third, construct mental imagery processes to fluidly propagate information between visual and symbolic reasoning modes enabling reasoning through contemplated alternatives to make more insightful conclusions. These innovations flow from several insights in neuro-inspired processes in the brain (see Literature Reference No. 60), Bayesian models that mimic putative reasoning processes for cognition in children (see Literature Reference No. 31), and functional models for visuospatial cognition (see Literature Reference No. 66).
(2.2) A Generic Visual Event Representation: Microaction Primitives
The method used to represent visual events must capture event-relevant information and disregard (i.e., be invariant to) event-irrelevant information in video. The approach utilized in the present invention addresses this problem with a series of filtering and max operations in repeating layers, building up selectivity and invariance to spatial and temporal variations of moving objects in the scene. This approach mimics the current understanding of how visual information is so effectively processed by the mammalian visual cortex. The hierarchical feed-forward architecture has an associated learning process that is unsupervised, and was shown to be an effective visual events representation.
The present invention builds upon a neuroscience-inspired spatio-temporal model (see Literature Reference Nos. 29, 61) that generates position-, scale-, and time-invariant microaction activation patterns with which higher level concepts about the domain of actions can be learned. Using this basic model, recognition accuracy of 92% for 9 classes of events (trained using 16 samples per class) has been reported. Previous studies and psychophysical results strongly suggest the existence of spatio-temporal pattern detectors in the brain that are optimally stimulated by short, but complex, motion segments (see Literature Reference No. 60). Based on this model and recent theoretical results described below, the present invention describes an unsupervised method to learn microaction activation patterns that aims to achieve the same 90% accuracy for many more classes of atomic events.
In the present invention, an event is defined as something that happens at a given place and duration in time. An atomic event is one from which complex events are composed. FIG. 3 illustrates the basic processes comprising the hierarchical feedforward architecture used to represent atomic events (see Literature Reference No. 29). S and C stand for layers of simple (S) and complex (C) cells of the mammalian visual pathway, which are emulated using filtering and max operations, giving rise to information selectivity and invariance properties required in visual event representation. The C1 and C2 layer filters represent spatial and spatio-temporal features, respectively. The latter are microactions 204. S3 is a vector time-series, and C3 is a time-invariant microaction activation pattern used to represent atomic events.
Each image 300 (frame) of an input video 102 is sequentially filtered and max-pooled by S- and C-units, corresponding to the simple and complex cells of the V1, V2 areas of the visual cortex. The S units build up selectivity for increasingly complex patterns (e.g. edges to arms to moving arms), and C units bring about position-, scale- and time-invariant properties. Each S layer represents filtering of images from the layer before. S1 302 is obtained by filtering each image 300 in the image sequence by a bank of Gabor wavelets. S2 304 is obtained by filtering each output from C1 308 by a bank of C1-filters 301 represented by the variables P1, P2, P3, and so on. Likewise, S3 306 is obtained by filtering C2 310 with a bank of C2-filters 303 represented by variables Q1, Q2, Q3, and so on. The C1 filters 301 operate only individual images, while the C2-filters 303 operate across several images in time. C1 308, C2 310, and C3 312 responses are obtained by a max-pooling operation, which refers to taking the maximum over a set of pixels. This set or “receptive field” increases in size; C1 computes the max over a neighborhood of pixels, C2 computes the max over the entire image, and finally C3 computes the max over the entire image sequence.
The filters used by each of the three S layers (S1 302, S2 304, and S3 306) represent a dictionary of Gabor wavelet-like features (not shown), which gives rise to local spatio-temporal patterns (i.e., C1 308 filters), resulting in microactions 204 (i.e., C2 310 filters). Each element of the max-pooled C-layer output represents the maximum activation level (i.e., filter response) of these patterns in video but over a neighborhood of pixels (C1 308), of the image (C2 310), and of a duration in time (C3 312). The final C3 312 feature consists of microaction activation patterns that serve as the scale-, position- and time-invariant representation of the visual event.
In the basic model, the C3 312 features represent each video clip for a support-vector-machine classifier to determine the event class. The results were state-of-the-art with 92% average correct classification rate for 9 event classes with a chance rate of 11% (see Literature Reference Nos. 29, 61). A recently published mathematical theory of the feed-forward architecture, known as the Neural Response, implied that prototype comparisons (filtering) in C-space are equivalent to comparisons in the projected (dimensionally reduced) space. In other words, any S-unit may operate on the dimensionally reduced space with no loss of representation performance. With dimensionality reduction in place of sampling to learn the C1 308 and C2 310 filters as in the basic model, it is expected that the same accuracy for many more atomic-event classes will be maintained. Compositions of these atomic-events will account for remaining visual events. The approach of the present invention uses reduction methods like Laplacian Eigenmaps (see Literature Reference No. 5) and Deep Belief Networks (see Literature Reference No. 24) to not only reduce the number of filters required, but also account for more samples in the reduced set of filters, which unlike sampling may miss pertinent samples. Furthermore, the use of these reduction methods preserves the model's capability to learn the C1 308 and C2 310 filters from a continuous stream of unlabeled videos. The classifier that operates on the C3 312 features, however, is learned in a supervised manner.
The new representation is universal in that the representations need only be learned from a few event videos to effectively represent all event videos. As evidence of this claim, the feedforward architecture for object recognition (S1-C1-S2-C2 layers only) was shown to perform as well for object-specific filters (i.e., filters learned from only the images of the target object) as for non-object-specific filters (i.e., filters learnt from all object images) (see Literature Reference No. 60). This conclusion should be true for the additional S3-C3 layers and the spatio-temporal representation for video in the present invention, implying that the event representation learned using videos of events occurring in one environment will suffice to represent atomic visual events in an operational environment. Finally, a video attention model is used to suppress irrelevant information due to clutter. Analogous to spatial attention in feedforward models for object recognition (see Literature Reference Nos. 12, 27), each salient region of a video frame will be joined if pixels are connected over time. Then, this spatio-temporal mask will be used by the feedforward architecture to modulate activations outside the volume of interest.
(2.3) Spatio-Temporal Action Concepts: A Concept Hierarchy of Actions
The domain of visual events is vast with multiple interactions between large numbers of objects and many possible manifestations for each of the events. Describing each class of events by an independent model, as is often done in the current literature (see Literature Reference No. 40, 72), makes the problem intractable, especially when trying to learn a large collection of useful events. As children develop, they learn and link action concepts over time by viewing many actions and grouping them to develop mental models for prediction. Over time, these concepts are automatically reused, added, adjusted, and refined as more events are encountered. Moreover, these extensible concepts allow generalization and induction from sparse data. It is this cognitive ability that is mimicked in the system described herein. Having this capability enables the system to automatically, in an unsupervised manner, cluster actions to learn classes of events, learn the temporal and causal relationship between events, add and refine events, and predict the result of a sequence of similar, but not exact, events.
The relevant steps in the present system that first builds a concept hierarchy will be described in detail below. The system is aimed at modeling human concept learning. Humans easily recognize the several possible manifestations of an event, for example, “run”, “jog”, and “walk” are instances of a “person moving.” There is evidence that when learning new words, children first classify unlabelled objects into non-overlapping clusters before they reason about them (see Literature Reference Nos. 45, 59). Analogously, the present invention first learns the similarity between actions by organizing them into a hierarchy before it learns to reason with them. In order to build the hierarchy, training videos are initially broken up so that they are weakly labeled and contain a homogenous single action, referred to as an atomic event. These are actions where the microactions from the previous section correspond to a single event (i.e. a walk, run, jog, sprint, give, take, put down).
Each training video is sent though a saliency/attention module that extracts regions it deems are attention-worthy. The attended regions are then represented by single vectors (e.g., the C3 vector from the previous section) that output a time and space invariant vector. These atomic event vectors are the input variables to the form and structure discovery algorithm, which organizes all atomic actions it knows so far in the best form (e.g., clusters, grid, hierarchy, tree) and structure (e.g., connectivity) that it has determined via Bayesian inference. At first, only clusters form, but these clusters are soon converted into a richer form, such as a hierarchy supporting relationships between clusters. A hierarchy is a type of form where the nodes represent C3 clusters. Under the hierarchy, all instances of “run” will be clustered under the same sub-branch. A new branch is created if the algorithm, through the process of new data accumulation and inference, decides that “sprint” is different from “run.” Thus, this approach will handle dynamic branching as a natural consequence of building the structure.
An illustration of the building of an action-concept hierarchy is shown in FIG. 4A. The structure is generated using a graph grammar whose basic operation involves replacing a parent node with two (or more) child nodes and specification of how to connect the children to each other and to the neighbors of the parent node. As a non-limiting example, the action-concept hierarchy depicted in FIG. 4A was built from data that captured the similarity between actions. The attention model module (FIG. 2, 200) of the present invention learns the action-concept hierarchy in an unsupervised manner using a compact graph grammar. Each node in the hierarchy is a cluster 400 of microactions (e.g., give, pass, throw).
Inference is used to score the relationship between entities in the hierarchy by P(Structure, Form|Data) α P(Data|Structure)P(Structure|Form)P(Form). P represents α conditiohal probability function, where | denotes “given”. The symbol a denotes “proportional to”. Here, “Form” refers to how concepts can be organized (e.g., in a tree, ring, list, etc.), “Structure” refers to the relationship between nodes in the form (i.e., a relationship between two nodes indicates whether or not they are linked and the direction of causality if they are linked), and “Data” refers to input that gets grouped into nodes. Since it is biased towards a hierarchical interpretation, P(Form) will contain the bias. P(Structure|Form) biases the structure and keeps the number of nodes small. The remaining term P(Data|Structure) is used to account for how well the chosen structure models the data. The covariance of the distribution describing the node encourages nearby nodes to be similar, thus promoting a smooth transition in features of nearby atomic events. For each branch representing a cluster such as “run”, all the instances are used to create a Hidden Markov Model (HMM) (depicted as element 126 in FIG. 1) to represent the dynamics for that action. This is helpful for segmenting training and test videos in addition to forming the dynamic nodes for Partially Dynamic Bayesian Networks (PDBN), as will be described in detail below.
For those actions that involve objects, an intelligent form of clustering known an Infinite Relational Model (IRM) (see Literature Reference No. 30) can be used to further improve the hierarchy. IRM is an unsupervised, non-parametric Bayesian model that is capable of discovering clusters that indicate systems of related concepts. The benefit of using IRM is that it can cluster data based not just on similarity in feature space, but also with the relation to the objects the actions are involved in. The object information and the relationship between objects are obtained using current state-of-the-art visual object recognition algorithms (see Literature Reference Nos. 14, 26, 60).
The previous step described above provides self-organized clusters in the form of a hierarchy 401, as shown in FIG. 4A. In the next step, a framework, which encapsulates the temporal and causal relationships between clusters in the hierarchy 401, is constructed so that information from all input videos can be consolidated into a compact knowledge network. A unique aspect about this framework is its ability to self-organize and refine itself in an unsupervised manner as more data is encountered. This type of model enables the extraction of the semantic meaning of actions from all videos and consolidates the effect of a class of actions. For instance, the “person moving” class describes “run”, “walk”, “sprint”, and “jog”. The model used in the present invention takes on the form of a hierarchical Partially Dynamic Bayesian network (PDBN). A PDBN is a network consisting of static objects (or intent) and dynamic nodes, where actions are described by HMMs learned for each cluster (see Literature Reference No. 68) and whose structure is adjusted as the hierarchy 401 evolves with Bayesian inference.
An example of such a model with both causal and temporal links is shown in FIG. 4B, which depicts a PDBN 403 built from data that captures the temporal and causal relations between event-concepts and static variables (e.g., objects). The PDBN 403 shown represents static nodes 402 (i.e., objects and later intent) and dynamic nodes 404 (i.e., actions). Each dynamic node 404 in the network represents a cluster 400 in the hierarchy 401 of FIG. 4A. Composite actions are represented by transitions (arrows 406) in the hierarchical PDBN 403 in temporal domain. Causal links 408 can also represented here (e.g., having object-in hand causes a put-down).
In order to learn this network, learning methods that use structured priors (see Literature Reference No. 44) are used to compute the transition probabilities between the clusters (hereinafter referred to as “nodes”) in the model. Structure learning assumes that the model is learning both connectivity between the nodes and the weights. In the model of the present invention, however, the focus is on transferring knowledge from the concept hierarchy into the network in the form of structured priors so that transition probabilities are not just learned for a particular expression of an action, but also for the whole class to which the action belongs. This allows the model to infer that a person who walked and put down something is a similar event (at a coarser scale) to a person who ran and put down something, for example. If the consequences of the latter event are known from previous experience, then it will now be allowed to be translated to the walk event because walk is similar to run. This allows the model to make inductive inferences from sparse data and can support envisionment by providing hypotheses for consideration. The model assumes that variables are a function of the classes they are members of, and edge connectivity is determined by an inference algorithm that uses Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) sampling to infer the causal relationship between the classes.
(2.4) Mental Imagery Processes: Envisionment and Knowledge Discovery
Recognition and reasoning are addressed by a combination of graphical models and symbolic reasoning. Graphical models handle uncertainty well, but do not facilitate detailed scene content or spatio-temporal analysis. Consequently, the system described herein uses schemas, which are hierarchical representations containing various data types (see Literature Reference No. 69). The system further utilizes spatio-temporal generalizations of State, Operator and Result (Soar) Spatial/Visual System (SVS) (see Literature Reference No. 66). Soar is a symbolic cognitive architecture that presents a view of what cognition is and an implementation of that view through a computer programming architecture for artificial intelligence (AI). SVS provides functional solutions to theoretical topics such as visual inspection, mental imagery, and storing and retrieving spatial memories. The state-of-the-art Soar was also chosen because of its ability to support rapid deduction despite large datasets (see Literature Reference No. 36) and interface with visual modules (see Literature Reference No. 76). In the present approach, visual inspection and mental imagery processes arise through “explaining away”, “predicate extraction”, and “predicate projection”, which will be explained in detail below.
Graphical models represent actions with nodes and causation with edges. Belief propagation interpolates and predicts actions while handling missing or imprecise location or timing information (see Literature Reference No. 77). Deductions from scene content or spatio-temporal inspection “explain away” or bias action recognition by rescaling posterior or state probabilities (see Literature Reference No. 32).
Symbolic representations use “predicate extraction” or visual inspection to quantize visual details into schemas. Matching visual input with scene graph sequences bind actors and objects to roles in scripts, as depicted in FIG. 5A. This allows the recognition of complex interactions; interpolation and prediction across long time horizons; imagination of occluded objects; and even the ability to uncover actor intent (see Literature Reference No. 69). Spatio-temporal reasoning guides scene interpretation using physical constraints (e.g., If X is slippery, X may be dropped) and will be augmented with non-visual information (e.g., rain makes X slippery) (see Literature Reference No. 66).
Visual imagery of symbolic representations occurs through “predicate projection,” which renders actions and objects. Symbolic representations are also easily transcribed (see Literature Reference No. 62). This supports introspective analysis and reporting. Visualization occurs through direct de-referencing of “perceptual pointers” for on-line input or top-down “hallucinations” through graphical nodes for off-line imagination (see Literature Reference Nos. 24, 25). FIGS. 5A and 5B illustrate schema binding and its envisionment with transcription, respectively. Schemas bind actors (e.g., Bob 500 and Alice 502) and objects (e.g., hats 504) to atomic actions (e.g., “exchange” 506) to, among other things, model complex interactions. In FIG. 5A, S refers to subject, DO refers to direct object, and IO denotes indirect object. As depicted in FIG. 5B, the envisionment transcription shows Alice 502 and Bob 500 exchanging hats 504. Scene content and spatio-temporal reasoning is used to rapidly prune hypothesis trees (FIG. 1, 122) within graphical models. In this case, “drop” 508 is also highly probable because of the use of non-visual information about weather (i.e., rain creates slippery objects).
The present invention extends the Soar+SVS framework to handle spatio-temporal information by generalizing the mental imagery processes described above. By refining uncertainty within graphical models by top-down pruning of hypotheses through scene content and spatio-temporal reasoning, a 20% improvement in accuracy of envisioned scenario is expected. Similar interfaces have shown a 10 to 25% accuracy improvement in vehicle track longevity (see Literature Reference No. 76).
Grounding, or the mutual reinforcement of visual and symbolic representations, uses automated form learning (see Literature Reference No. 70) and schema binding (see Literature Reference Nos. 6, 72), as described below. Respective representations are also refined for computational reasons through relevance reasoning (see Literature Reference No. 41) and “chunking” in each module. Non-visual information from symbolic reasoning can be embedded in graphical models by inserting a conditioning node. For example, in the graphical model depicted in FIG. 5A, weather information may bias “hold” 510 to “drop” 508. The topology of such nodes can be determined with automated form learning (see Literature Reference No. 70). Conversely, visual information can embellish schemas. For example, perhaps 60% of “exchange” actions involve hats. Since schemas are polymorphic and extensible, this information can be embedded (see Literature Reference Nos. 6, 69). Richer models in both domains provide more concrete visualizations and more efficient recognition. Geometric reasoning with visual information in one domain, for example, is 1.7 times faster than purely symbolic reasoning (see Literature Reference No. 38). Similar improvements are provided by the present invention when extending SVS to the spatio-temporal domain.
To refine model representations, relevancy reasoning (depicted as element 238 in FIG. 2) (see Literature Reference No. 41) and “chunking” is applied for visual and symbolic modules, respectively. Relevancy reasoning techniques merge nodes depending on statistical properties. In addition to speeding hypothesis convergence, relevancy reasoning techniques also simplify further model parameter and form learning. Symbolic abstraction can “chunk” representations and associated operators, with similar functional benefits to relevancy reasoning.
Lastly, use counts and storage size information can be used to prune infrequently used or over specified models in either representation. Off-line inspection of graphical models has been shown to speed computation by 95% to 25% compared to un-optimized and partially optimized models, respectively (see Literature Reference No. 41); for symbolic reasoning, the trend is similar: 88% and 33%. By pruning models, a significant improvement in computational time is provided by the present system.
(2.5) System Integration
The present invention also comprises a video processing subsystem architecture for the taskable smart camera system that will enable implementation and deployment of visual intelligence software, will meet the size, weight, and power constraints of the typical man-portable unmanned ground vehicle (UGV), is portable to a wide range of execution environments (i.e., hardware+operating system), and can also be scaled up or down for deployment to a wide range of operational platforms.
The high-level systems integration concept of the present invention allows known and candidate visual intelligence approaches to be integrated with known camera subsystems, while remaining within size, weight, and power (SWaP) constraints appropriate for small, militarily-relevant UGVs. The high space and time complexity of the algorithms and the desire for a small SWaP envelope are the primary system design drivers. In the present invention, the focus is on maximizing the diversity, extensibility, and power efficiency of the embedded computational resources to achieve flexibility in mapping components of the visual intelligence algorithms to the most appropriate and efficient hardware.
Presented herein is a non-limiting example of an architecture showing the approach used to integrate the visual intelligence algorithms of this invention. The flexibility of the approach begins with the configuration of the camera and the video signal processing. A two-module approach, with a separate video processor module 600 and camera module 602 is illustrated in FIG. 6. There are two versions of the camera module 602 with a common interface to the video processor module 604: one that contains a video analog-to-digital converter (ADC) and interfaces electronics, and one that contains a color digital camera. The ADC camera module allows for interfacing the smart camera to known, existing camera systems. The camera module 602 allows installation of the smart camera onto a vehicle (e.g., UGV) that does not currently carry a camera, or carries a camera with insufficient video characteristics. Separating the camera module 602 from the video processor module 600 allows for a more robust design of the core processing capability, yet allows for flexibility on various size and types of vehicles. In other words, by separating the camera module 602 from the video processor module 600, the smart camera subsystem can be used as a stand-alone system or with existing UGV video.
FIG. 7 diagrams a video processor subsystem architecture which provides high performance density (ops/W) and memory bandwidth in a lightweight, low-power package. As a non-limiting example, the digital camera module 602 uses a camera from the Bobcat® series made by Imperx Incorporated located at 6421 Congress Avenue, Boca Raton, Fla. 33487. The Bobcat series are programmable high-quality low-noise interline-transfer Bayer pattern color CCD-based cameras with power over Camera Link uncompressed video interface and performance ranging from 640×480×8 bit @260 frames per second (fps), to 16 megapixels (Mpix) 14-bit @4 Hertz (Hz), with 60 decibel (dB) signal to noise ratio. The Bobcat has an internal field-programmable gate array (FPGA) based processing engine, providing a myriad of functionality such as dynamic transfer function correction, multiple areas of interest, automatic gain and iris control with programmable region of significance, programmable resolution, and microsecond exposure control.
The video processor module 600 combines a camera interface and video pre-processor 604, that conditions and partitions the input video from the color imager into digital video streams, with a cluster of microprocessors 700 (e.g., Texas Instruments (TI) Open Multimedia Application Processor (OMAP) microprocessors made by TI located at 12500 TI Boulevard, Dallas, Tex. 75243). Each microprocessor 700 is connected to Flash Electrically Erasable Programmable Read-Only Memory (EEPROM) for operating system, program, and constant storage, and to SDRAM for runtime program and data storage. OMAP processors enable the current generation of multimedia-capable cell phones, and provide very high performance per Watt. The current design is based on the OMAP3530, but the design approach is applicable to any of the emerging heterogeneous multi-core microprocessors 700, such as the OMAP4x, that integrate central processing unit (CPU), a digital signal processor (DSP), and a graphics processing unit (GPU) in a single low-power package.
Each OMAP3530 provides a 600 megahertz (MHz) ARM Cortex-A8 RISC CPU core with the ARM NEON single-instruction multiple-data (SIMD) floating-point coprocessor; an Image, Video, Audio Accelerator (IVA2) subsystem that includes a TI TMS320C64x+ Very Long Instruction Word (VLIW) DSP core plus additional video hardware accelerators; and the Imagination Technologies PowerVR SGX530 graphics accelerator core. Communication between processors can be supported by standard Ethernet channels 702 and switched via a network switch 704 on the board. A radio interface 706 provides two-way communications to the UGV Platform 708 through the Comms 710 link. A Joint Test Action Group (JTAG 712) interface is provided to support hardware test and software debug. A Power Management (PM 714) module manages the voltage levels and clock enables for the microprocessors 700, to keep power consumption at a minimum. Electrical power 716 flows into the video processor module 600, and heat (thermal 718) from power dissipation flows to the supporting hardware environment provided by the UGV Platform 708. This design approach allows visual intelligence software to be executed on the Cortex CPUs with a minimum of porting effort. Optionally, additional performance can be gained by using target-specific libraries (which make use of the other functional units in the OMAP).
A preliminary identification of typical computational primitives in the key visual intelligence system algorithms was done to determine the best hardware mapping, which simultaneously profiled similar algorithms to find computational bottlenecks. Analysis suggests that key computational bottlenecks in the invention are its representational algorithms and the multiple center-surround type convolutions that must be performed on each video frame. These algorithms have one or more stages in which an image is filtered using different kernels (i.e., orientation, motion-specific filters) at multiple scales to extract relevant features. For example, the CBCL algorithm (see Literature Reference No. 60) has two filtering stages: S1 and S2. To generate an output for stage S1, there are 64 filters (4 orientations at 16 scales). To generate the S2 result, there are 1000 filters computed at 8 scales. Multiple nested convolutions such as these can easily saturate processing resources, including storage and memory. This type of analysis suggests that the CBCL algorithm could be partitioned between the pre-processing FPGA and the GPUs in the OMAP chips.
FIG. 8 illustrates a block diagram depicting components of a data processing system 800 (e.g., computer) incorporating the operations of the method described above and throughout the specification. The method utilizes a data processing system 800 for storing computer executable instructions (or instruction means) for causing a processor to carry out the operations of the above described method. The data processing system 800 comprises an input 802 for receiving information from a user. Information received may include input from devices such as cameras, scanners, keypads, keyboards, microphone, other peripherals such as storage devices, other programs, etc. The input 802 may include multiple “ports.” An output 804 is connected with a processor 806 (or processors) for providing information for transmission to other data processing systems, to storage devices, to display devices such as monitors, to generating information necessary for delivery, and to other mechanisms for presentation in user-usable forms. The input 802 and the output 804 are both coupled with the processor 806, which may be a general-purpose computer processor or a specialized processor designed specifically for use with the present invention. The processor 806 is coupled with a memory 808 to permit storage of data and software to be manipulated by commands to the processor 806. The memory 808 includes instructions such that when the instructions are executed, the processor 808 (or processors) performs operations described above and throughout the specification.
An illustrative diagram of a computer program product embodying the present invention is depicted in FIG. 9. As a non-limiting example, the computer program product is depicted as either a floppy disk 900 or an optical disk 902. However, as mentioned previously, the computer program product generally represents computer readable code (i.e., instruction means or instructions) stored on any compatible non-transitory computer readable medium.
Claims (22)
Hide Dependent 
What is claimed is:
1. A system for embedding visual intelligence, the system comprising:
one or more processors and a memory having instructions such that when the instructions are executed, the one or more processors perform operations of:
receiving an input video comprising input video pixels representing at least one action and at least one object having a location;
processing at least one input query to elicit information regarding the input video;
generating microactions from the input video using a set of motion sensitive filters derived from a series of filtering and max operations in repeating layers;
learning of a relationship between the input video pixels and the microactions in both unsupervised and supervised manners;
learning, from the microactions, at least one concept, comprising spatio-temporal patterns, and a set of causal relationships between the spatio-temporal patterns in an automatic, unsupervised manner using form and structure learning techniques;
learning to acquire new knowledge from the spatio-temporal patterns using mental imagery models in an unsupervised manner;
and
presenting a visual output to a user based on the learned set of spatio-temporal patterns and the new knowledge to aid the user in visually comprehending the at least one action in the input video.
2. The system for embedding visual intelligence as set forth in claim 1, wherein the visual output is at least one of a video and a textual description.
3. The system for embedding visual intelligence as set forth in claim 2, further comprising:
a spatio-temporal representations module for capturing event-invariant information in the input video using a series of filtering and max operations in repeating layers;
an attention model module for generating video masks to focus attention of the spatio-temporal representations module to specific areas of the input video in order to generate the microactions; and
a concept learning module for stringing together the microactions to compose full actions and learning of a set of relationships between the spatio-temporal patterns through form and structure learning.
4. The system for embedding visual intelligence as set forth in claim 3, further comprising:
a visual object recognition module for determining the location of the at least one object in the input video; and
a hypothesis module for generating at least one hypothesis of the at least one action based on known concepts and the at least one object in the input video.
5. The system for embedding visual intelligence as set forth in claim 4, further comprising:
a visual inspection module for comparing the at least one hypothesis with the input video;
a validation module for validating the at least one hypothesis using feedback from the visual inspection module; and
an envisionment module for generating envisioned imagery of the at least one hypothesis to reason and gain new knowledge.
6. The system for embedding visual intelligence as set forth in claim 5, further comprising:
a knowledgebase module for storing domain knowledge, the set of relationships between the spatio-temporal patterns from the concept learning module, and knowledge generated from reasoning on the envisioned imagery;
a dialog processing module for parsing at least one input text query; and
a symbolic reasoning module for locating answers to the at least one input text query in the knowledgebase module and outputting a textual description of the at least one input text query.
7. The system for embedding visual intelligence as set forth in claim 6, wherein the set of relationships between the spatio-temporal patterns comprises a plurality of nodes, where each node represents a cluster of microactions.
8. A computer-implemented method for embedding visual intelligence, comprising acts of:
receiving an input video comprising input video pixels representing at least one action and at least one object having a location;
processing at least one input query to elicit information regarding the input video;
generating microactions from the input video using a set of motion sensitive filters derived from a series of filtering and max operations in repeating layers;
learning of a relationship between the input video pixels and the microactions in both unsupervised and supervised manners;
learning, from the microactions, at least one concept, comprising spatio-temporal patterns, and a set of causal relationships between the spatio-temporal patterns in an automatic, unsupervised manner using form and structure learning techniques;
learning to acquire new knowledge from the spatio-temporal patterns using mental imagery models in an unsupervised manner;
and
presenting a visual output to a user based on the learned set of spatio-temporal patterns and the new knowledge to aid the user in visually comprehending the at least one action in the input video.
9. The method for embedding visual intelligence as set forth in claim 8, wherein the visual output is at least one of a video and a textual description.
10. The method for embedding visual intelligence as set forth in claim 9, further comprising acts of:
a spatio-temporal representations module for capturing event-invariant information in the input video using a series of filtering and max operations in repeating layers;
an attention model module for generating video masks to focus attention of the spatio-temporal representations module to specific areas of the input video in order to generate the microactions; and
a concept learning module for stringing together the microactions to compose full actions and learning of a set of relationships between the spatio-temporal patterns through form and structure learning.
11. The method for embedding visual intelligence as set forth in claim 10, further comprising acts of:
determining the location of the at least one object in the input video within a visual object recognition module; and
generating at least one hypothesis of the at least one action based on known concepts and the at least one object in the input video within a hypothesis module.
12. The method for embedding visual intelligence as set forth in claim 11, further comprising acts of:
comparing the at least one hypothesis with the input video within a visual inspection module;
validating the at least one hypothesis using feedback from the visual inspection module within a validation module; and
generating envisioned imagery of the at least one hypothesis to reason and gain new knowledge within an envisionment module.
13. The method for embedding visual intelligence as set forth in claim 12, further comprising acts of:
a knowledgebase module for storing domain knowledge, the set of relationships between the spatio-temporal patterns from the concept learning module, and knowledge generated from reasoning on the envisioned imagery;
a dialog processing module for parsing at least one input text query; and
a symbolic reasoning module for locating answers to the at least one input text query in the knowledgebase module and outputting a textual description of the at least one input text query.
14. The method for embedding visual intelligence as set forth in claim 13, wherein the set of relationships between the spatio-temporal patterns comprises a plurality of nodes, where each node represents a cluster of microactions.
15. A computer program product for embedding visual intelligence, the computer program product comprising: computer-readable instruction means stored on a non-transitory computer-readable medium that are executable by a computer having a processor for causing the processor to perform operations of:
receiving an input video comprising input video pixels representing at least one action and at least one object having a location;
processing at least one input query to elicit information regarding the input video;
generating microactions from the input video using a set of motion sensitive filters derived from a series of filtering and max operations in repeating layers;
learning of a relationship between the input video pixels and the microactions in both unsupervised and supervised manners;
learning, from the microactions, at least one concept, comprising spatio-temporal patterns, and a set of causal relationships between the spatio-temporal action patterns in an automatic, unsupervised manner using form and structure learning techniques;
learning to acquire new knowledge from the spatio-temporal patterns using mental imagery models in an unsupervised manner;
and
presenting a visual output to a user based on the learned set of spatio-temporal patterns and the new knowledge to aid the user in visually comprehending the at least one action in the input video.
16. The computer program product for embedding visual intelligence as set forth in claim 15, wherein the visual output is at least one of a video and a textual description.
17. The computer program product for embedding visual intelligence as set forth in claim 16, further comprising instruction means for causing the processor to perform operations of:
a spatio-temporal representations module for capturing event-invariant information in the input video using a series of filtering and max operations in repeating layers;
an attention model module for generating video masks to focus attention of the spatio-temporal representations module to specific areas of the input video in order to generate the microactions; and
a concept learning module for stringing together the microactions to compose full actions and learning of a set of relationships between the spatio-temporal patterns through form and structure learning.
18. The computer program product for embedding visual intelligence as set forth in claim 17, further comprising instruction means for causing the processor to perform operations of:
determining the location of the at least one object in the input video within a visual object recognition module; and
generating at least one hypothesis of the at least one action based on known concepts and the at least one object in the input video within a hypothesis module.
19. The computer program product for embedding visual intelligence as set forth in claim 18, further comprising instruction means for causing the processor to perform operations of:
comparing the at least one hypothesis with the input video within a visual inspection module;
validating the at least one hypothesis using feedback from the visual inspection module within a validation module; and
generating envisioned imagery of the at least one hypothesis to reason and gain new knowledge within an envisionment module.
20. The computer program product for embedding visual intelligence as set forth in claim 19, further comprising instruction means for causing the processor to perform operations of:
a knowledgebase module for storing domain knowledge, the set of relationships between the spatio-temporal patterns from the concept learning module, and knowledge generated from reasoning on the envisioned imagery;
a dialog processing module for parsing at least one input text query; and
a symbolic reasoning module for locating answers to the at least one input text query in the knowledgebase module and outputting a textual description of the at least one input text query.
21. The computer program product for embedding visual intelligence as set forth in claim 20, wherein the set of relationships between the spatio-temporal patterns comprises a plurality of nodes, where each node represents a cluster of microactions.
22. A video processing subsystem for a taskable smart camera system to be utilized with the system set forth in claim 1, comprising:
a video processor module;
a camera module separate from the video processor module; and
a common interface between the video processor module and the camera module.

WO2025227355A1：

Description
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR REINFORCEMENT LEARNING
FIELD
Aspects of the present disclosure relate generally to artificial intelligence (AI) , and more particularly, to a method and an apparatus for reinforcement learning.
BACKGROUND
Reinforcement learning (RL) is a powerful tool, and has displayed recent success in many domains, such as automatic drive, industrial automation, robot control, natural language processing, financial trade, health care, or the like. However, despite its potential, RL faces a significant challenge: generalization. Current agents and algorithms struggle to perform well beyond the narrow settings in which they were trained, which is a major limitation that hinders the practical applications of RL. For example, a robot owns twelve controllable joints when being trained, but a realistic setting may be that one or more of the joints may be damaged when deploying in the real world, and we still hope that the robot can complete the corresponding tasks to its best.
Therefore, it may be desirable to provide a method or a technique of RL to improve the performance, e.g., generalization.
SUMMARY
The following presents a simplified summary of one or more aspects according to the present disclosure in order to provide a basic understanding of such aspects. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated aspects, and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all aspects nor delineate the scope of any or all aspects. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more aspects in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.
In an aspect of the disclosure, a computer-implemented method for reinforcement learning is provided, comprising obtaining state-action pairs with a policy by controlling a plurality of embodiments to interact with an environment,  wherein the policy is initialized by parameters of a neural network; estimating embodiment contexts for distinguishing among the plurality of embodiments based on the state-action pairs; obtaining a trained policy by updating the parameters of the neural network based on the state-action pairs and the embodiment contexts; and adjusting the trained policy based on rewards of a plurality of tasks implemented by the plurality of embodiments.
In another aspect of the disclosure, apparatus for reinforcement learning is provided, comprising a memory and at least one processor coupled to the memory. The at least one processor is configured to obtain state-action pairs with a policy by controlling a plurality of embodiments to interact with an environment, wherein the policy is initialized by parameters of a neural network; estimate embodiment contexts for distinguishing among the plurality of embodiments based on the state-action pairs; obtain a trained policy by updating the parameters of the neural network based on the state-action pairs and the embodiment contexts; and adjust the trained policy based on rewards of a plurality of tasks implemented by the plurality of embodiments.
In another aspect of the disclosure, a computer program product for reinforcement learning is provided, comprising processor executable computer code for obtaining state-action pairs with a policy by controlling a plurality of embodiments to interact with an environment, wherein the policy is initialized by parameters of a neural network; estimating embodiment contexts for distinguishing among the plurality of embodiments based on the state-action pairs; obtaining a trained policy by updating the parameters of the neural network based on the state-action pairs and the embodiment contexts; and adjusting the trained policy based on rewards of a plurality of tasks implemented by the plurality of embodiments.
In another aspect of the disclosure, a computer readable medium stores computer code for reinforcement learning. The computer code when executed by a processor causes the processor to obtain state-action pairs with a policy by controlling a plurality of embodiments to interact with an environment, wherein the policy is initialized by parameters of a neural network; estimate embodiment contexts for distinguishing among the plurality of embodiments based on the state-action pairs; obtain a trained policy by updating the parameters of the neural network based on the state-action pairs and the embodiment contexts; and adjust the trained policy based on  rewards of a plurality of tasks implemented by the plurality of embodiments.
The proposed methods for reinforcement learning according to one or more aspects of the present disclosure may be used for various tasks and/or application fields, such as industrial automation, robot control, natural language processing and the like. Although the following disclosure may be described with reference to walkers for some part only for illustration, the present disclosure may be applicable to many other application fields, such as mechanical arms or the like.
By extracting and leveraging embodiment-aware features, a unified policy can be learned for handling a series of downstream tasks across various embodiments, without the need for extensive retraining for each new embodiment, thus the adaptability or generalization can be improved.
Other aspects or variations of the disclosure, as well as other advantages thereof will become apparent by consideration of the following detailed description and accompanying drawings.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
The disclosed aspects will hereinafter be described in connection with the appended drawings that are provided to illustrate and not to limit the disclosed aspects.
FIG. 1 illustrates a schematic diagram for a framework of current unsupervised RL methods.
FIG. 2 illustrates a schematic diagram of a framework for cross-embodiment unsupervised RL according to one or more aspects of the present disclosure.
FIG. 3 illustrates an exemplary workflow for a method for cross-embodiment unsupervised RL according to one or more aspects of the present disclosure.
FIG. 4 illustrates another exemplary workflow for method for cross-embodiment unsupervised RL according to one or more aspects of the present disclosure.
FIG. 5 illustrates another exemplary workflow for method for cross-embodiment unsupervised RL according to one or more aspects of the present  disclosure.
FIG. 6 shows a chart for aggregate metrics (Agarwal et al., 2021) in state-based DMC (Deepmind control, Tassa et al., 2018) resulted from different approaches.
FIG. 7 shows a chart for aggregate metrics (Agarwal et al., 2021) in image-based DMC (Deepmind control, Tassa et al., 2018) resulted from different approaches.
FIG. 8 illustrates an example of a hardware implementation for an apparatus according to one or more aspects of the present disclosure.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
The present disclosure will now be discussed with reference to several example implementations. It is to be understood that these implementations are discussed only for enabling those skilled in the art to better understand and thus implement the embodiments of the present disclosure, rather than suggesting any limitations on the scope of the present disclosure.
Designing generalizable agents capable of efficiently adapting and generalizing to different tasks remains a major challenge in Reinforcement Learning (RL) . Recently, unsupervised learning has proven transformative impact in natural language processing and computer vision, where pre-trained models can be fast adapted or even zero-shot generalized to a multitude of downstream tasks after massive pre-training. Inspired by these successes, unsupervised RL may be designed to control a single embodiment to interact within a controlled Markov Decision Process (MDP) , which is an MDP devoid of reward signals, to pre-train an agent, and then fine-tune the agent for downstream tasks characterized by extrinsic rewards, through this specific single embodiment.
However, current unsupervised RL methods trained through a specific embodiment, face limitations in scalability and adaptability in real-world scenarios with diverse embodiments, where each embodiment may own different physical forms and/or may have unique operational dynamics, and may behave differently for a given task.
FIG. 1 illustrates a schematic diagram for a framework of current  unsupervised RL methods. The framework 100 of current unsupervised RL methods may comprise two stages, a pre-training stage 110 and a fine-tuning stage 120. In the pre-training stage 110, an agent 116 (e.g., actor-critic) may control an embodiment 112 to interact with a reward-less world 114 to train a policy or world model 118. For example, the embodiment 112 may be a two-leg robot. The reward-less world 114 may be a reward-less Markovian Decision Process (MDP) . In the fine-tuning stage 120, the trained policy or world model 118 may be fine-tuned by controlling the same embodiment 112 (e.g., the two-leg robot) to perform a series of downstream tasks 122 based on extrinsic rewards from performing these tasks.
However, in realistic scenarios, the model of the policy or world model may be deployed into one’s embodiments with different physical forms and/or unique operational dynamics (e.g., in the above example, a robot’s embodiments with different structures, masses, or the like) , which results in a limitation in scalability and adaptability in real-world scenarios. Therefore, Cross-embodiment unsupervised RL (e.g., pre-training with a distribution of embodiments in reward-less environments and then fine-tuning to handle downstream tasks for these embodiments) is crucial, which can address this gap by enabling the model to leverage shared knowledge and adapt the policy across different physical forms without the need for extensive retraining for each new embodiment. The challenge of cross-embodiment unsupervised RL may lie in adapting to the intrinsic variability of embodiments, where the traditional methods or algorithms may fall short.
Therefore, compared to the current methods focusing on a single embodiment and a series of downstream tasks, the present disclosure proposes a new method of RL to learn a generalizable model for handling a series of downstream tasks across various embodiments, e.g., to further improve the generalization. This method is based at least in part on an insight that different embodiments tend to own similar skills and can handle similar downstream tasks, prompting the exploration of separating the embodiments and the tasks to train a unified cross-embodiment model. For example, unsupervised pre-training of diverse embodiments and task-aware fine-tuning for these embodiments via a single cross-embodiment agent.
To address the complexity of cross-embodiment unsupervised RL and design algorithms for it, we first analyze the objective for both fine-tuning and pre- training stages (e.g., the pre-training stage 110 and fine-tuning stage 120) . Given a downstream task characterized by the extrinsic rewardthe pre-trained policy is required to fit this task across a distribution of embodiments with a few steps. Thus, we define an objective of cross-embodiment unsupervised RL as a combination of policy improvement underand policy constraint with the pre-trained policy evaluated via KL divergence. Then, for the pre-training objective, we propose examining the optimal initialization for maximizing the objective against the worst-case reward function as the pre-trained model needs to handle any downstream tasks. Based on the above analysis, we found that in the pre-trained stage, the trajectory distributions over different embodiments should be similar.
Based on the above analysis and insights, we propose a novel method or algorithm for cross-embodiment unsupervised RL, which introduces an embodiment discriminator to distinguish among different embodiments for learning embodiment context and handling them simultaneously, and a cross-embodiment intrinsic reward, which is based on an embodiment posterior approximated via the embodiment discriminator and used for pre-training the agent. By using the proposed method or algorithm, fine-tuning efficiency and generalization for the cross-embodiment setting can be enhanced.
In general, unsupervised RL may consider a controlled MDP, which is a reward-less MDP, defined aswheredenote the state space and action space of the agent, respectively, represents the transition dynamic of the MDP and γ is the discount factor. The basic principle of unsupervised RL methods is to interact with the controlled MDP during pre-training and design intrinsic rewardsfor training the policy π or world models, which can effectively adapt to any downstream task.
Formally, in the pre-training stage, the agent can only collect reward-less trajectory τ= (s0, a0, s1, …) with probabilityThen unsupervised RL methods will design intrinsic rewards of these trajectories via exploration or skill discovery. During fine-tuning, will be combined with a downstream task represented byand agents are required to maximize the task return, i.e., within a few steps (e.g., often one-tenth or less of the pre-training steps) .
In one or more aspects of the present disclosure, in consideration of diverse embodiments rather than a single embodiment, we introduce embodiment context to represent each embodiment and extend the controlled MDP to a controlled embodiment-based MDP (referred as CEMDP for simplicity herein) accordingly in our proposed method or algorithm for cross-embodiment unsupervised RL. For example, a CEMDP includes a distribution of controlled MDP, which may be defined ashereis the distribution of embodiments. All embodiments can share the sameandAlternatively or additionally, respective state spaces and action spaces for each embodiment may be united to form a new state space and a new action space, which may be denoted asandrespectively. denotes the transition dynamic kernel of an embodiment e.
In general, developing agents that generalize across different embodiments is challenging due to their high variability. In order to address the high variability, we propose extracting and leveraging embodiment-aware features while adapting to embodiment-specific constraints.
In an example, an objective for cross-embodiment unsupervised RL that is adaptable across different embodiments by handling the CEMDP may be defined as:
Where any downstream task is characterized by the extrinsic rewardπ denotes pre-trained policy, π*denotes fine-tuned policy, anddenotes an average embodiment MDP satisfying that
In order to follow the primary standard in pre-training stage that the pre-trained policy has an ability to rapidly adapt to any downstream task characterized bythe objective comprises the component ofof the equation (1) for policy improvement underIn Addition to optimizing policy’s return underthere are constraints of limited interactions with the environment in the fine-tuning stage, which may result in an assumption that the fine-tuned policy π*will be near the pre-trained policy π. Therefore, the objective further comprises a policy constraint evaluated by the KL divergence for example, as shown by the component ofof the equation (1) .
During fine-tuning, we hope to optimize policy via maximizingDuring pre-training, the inherent challenge lies in ensuring robustness and adaptability across all downstream tasks, requiring a comprehensive analysis ofunder extreme conditions. Specifically, we propose evaluating the objective against the worst-case reward function across the embodiment distribution. This may be formally represented as:
For optimizing it during pre-training, we found that such an optimization objective can be equal to a simple form that is only related to π andFor example, the optimization objective of the equation (2) can be simplified as:
As we need to maximize the left part of the equation (3) in the pre-training stage, this result provides the insight to encourage the policy own low i.e., the trajectory distributions over different embodiments are similar. It may be intuitive to help the policy handle similar downstream tasks across different embodiments. We can further derive that
Whereanddenote prior and posterior probabilities for an embodiment e, respectively.
Based on these analyses, in a pre-training stage of the cross-embodiment unsupervised RL, we propose learning an embodiment context via historical trajectory for distinguishing the different embodiments, and we also propose an intrinsic reward to encourage the agent to explore the region where the learned embodiment context may be misled, in order to improve the adaptability of the pre-trained policy.
For example, the embodiment context used for distinguishing the different embodiments may be obtained via an embodiment discriminator (e.g., a neural  network with trainable parameters θ) with a form ofBased on the historical trajectory, the embodiment discriminatormay learn or approximate the posterior probabilitywhich may be served as embodiment context to identify which embodiment would most likely result in this observed trajectory. By introducing the embodiment context into the pre-training stage, embodiment-aware features can be extracted.
For another example, inspired by the insights that evaluating the objective (e.g., as shown by the equation (1) ) against the worst-case reward function across the embodiment distribution may improve the adaptability, as illustrated by the equation (4) , the intrinsic reward may be written as:
As the relationship exhibited through the equations (1) , (2) , (3) and (4) , maximizing the intrinsic reward of the equation (5) results in maximizing the exploration of state spaceagainst the worst-case reward function across the embodiment distribution, which can improve the adaptability. By maximizing the intrinsic reward (e.g., we assume the prior embodiment probabilityis fixed) , the agent is encouraged to explore the region with lowwhere the embodiment discriminator may be misled with high probability. This can help the embodiment discriminator to boost itself and benefit the downstream tasks.
FIG. 2 illustrates a schematic diagram of a framework for cross-embodiment unsupervised RL according to one or more aspects of the present disclosure. The framework 200 of the cross-embodiment unsupervised RL may comprise a cross embodiment pre-training stage 210, a fine-tuning stage 220 and a pre-trained embodiment-aware control (referred as PEAC herein for simplicity) component 230. In the cross embodiment pre-training stage 210, an agent 216 (e.g., actor-critic) may control different embodiments 212-a, 212-b, 212-c to interact with a reward-less world 214 (e.g., CEMDP, which may be defined as hereis the distribution of embodiments) to obtain state-action pairs, in order to train a policy or world model 218. The observed trajectories 232 composed of state-action pairs by the different embodiments 212-a, 212-b, 212-c may be used to learn the embodiment context 234, which is introduced in the intrinsic  reward 236 to enhance the adaptability of the agent 216 against diverse embodiments and downstream tasks 122. In an optional component 240, the intrinsic reward 236 may be combined with current typical unsupervised RL methods (e.g., exploration, skill discovery, or the like) to further enhance the adaptability.
FIG. 3 illustrates an exemplary workflow for a method for cross-embodiment unsupervised RL according to one or more aspects of the present disclosure. The method 300 may be performed in the framework 200. At step 310, observed trajectories composed of state-action pairs may be obtained with a policy by controlling a plurality of embodiments to interact with an environment, wherein the policy is initialized by parameters of a neural network.
For example, the environment may be characterized by a MDP capable of adapting to each of the plurality of embodiments. In an exemplary design, CEMDP defined asmay be used as the environment.
For example, the plurality of embodiments may have a plurality of replay buffer, and the state-action pairs from each of the plurality of embodiments may be stored into an individual one of the plurality of replay buffers, respectively.
At step 320, embodiment contexts for distinguishing among the plurality of embodiments may be estimated based on the state-action pairs.
For example, state-action pairs may be sampled from each of the reply buffers, and an embodiment discriminator (e.g., a neural network with parameters) may be updated based on the sampled state-action pairs.
For example, the embodiment discriminator may generate a posterior probability of CEMDP (e.g., ) being adapted to each of the plurality of embodiments based on the sampled state-action pairs (e.g., ) .
At step 330, an intrinsic reward (e.g., as defined in the equation (5) ) may be computed for each sampled state-action pair. The policy may be updated by using a RL backbones (e.g., PPO, DDPG, DreamerV2, or the like) based on the intrinsic reward and the sampled state-action pairs, to obtain a pre-trained policy.
At step 340, the pre-trained policy may be fine-tuned based on rewards of a plurality of tasks implemented by the plurality of embodiments. For example, the pre-trained policy may be updated by further training on state-action-reward dataset that is obtained by controlling the plurality of embodiments to perform the tasks.
FIG. 4 illustrates another exemplary workflow for method for cross-embodiment unsupervised RL according to one or more aspects of the present disclosure. The method 400 may be performed in the framework 200, and steps 410, 420 and 440 of the method 400 may correspond to the steps 310, 320, and 340 of the method 300. In order to incorporating with the exploration approaches to further enhance the adaptability, at step 430, components of LBS (Mazzaglia et al., 2022) may be updated, including the Latent Prior model, the Latent Posterior model, and the Reconstruction model. For example, In DreamerV2 backbone, we can directly utilize its prior model and posterior model.
At step 435, a sum of the intrinsic reward (i.e., as defined in the equation (5) ) and an intrinsic reward of LBS may be computed for each of the sampled state-action pairs. The policy may be updated by using a RL backbones (e.g., PPO, DDPG, DreamerV2, or the like) based on the sum and the sampled state-action pairs, to obtain a pre-trained policy.
FIG. 5 illustrates another exemplary workflow for method for cross-embodiment unsupervised RL according to one or more aspects of the present disclosure. The method 500 may be performed in the framework 200, and steps 510 and 520 of the method 500 may correspond to the steps 310 and 320 of the method 300. In order to incorporating with the skill discovery approaches to further enhance the adaptability, at step 530, a skill discriminator of DIAYN (Eysenbach et al., 2018) may be updated based on the sampled state-action pairs.
At step 532, a sum of the intrinsic reward (i.e., as defined in the equation (5) ) and an intrinsic reward of DIAYN may be computed for each of the sampled state-action pairs. At step 534, a behavior policy conditioned on skill and embodiment context (e.g., π (·|s, z, e) , where z denotes a random skill) may be updated by using a RL backbones (e.g., PPO, DDPG, DreamerV2, or the like) based on the sum and the sampled state-action pairs, to obtain a pre-trained policy.
At step 540, similar to step 340, an embodiment-aware skill policy (e.g., π (z|e, τ ) , where z denotes a random skill) may be updated by further training on state-action-reward dataset that is obtained by controlling the plurality of embodiments to perform the tasks.
To further demonstrate the advantages of the present disclosure,  experimental results are given in the FIG. 6 and FIG. 7. FIG. 6 shows a chart 600 for aggregate metrics (Agarwal et al., 2021) in state-based DMC (Deepmind control, Tassa et al., 2018) , comprising four sub-charts 620, 630, 640 and 650 representing median, IQM, mean, optimality gap, respectively. Horizontal axis denotes an expert normalized score, and the vertical axis denotes approaches comprising ICM (Pathak et al., 2017) 601, RND (Burda et al., 2018) 602, Disagreement (Pathak et al., 2019) 603, ProtoRL (Yarats et al., 2021) 604, LBS (Mazzaglia et al., 2022) 605, DIAYN (Eysenbach et al., 2018) 606, SMM (Lee et al., 2019) 607, APS (Liu &Abbeel, 2021) 608, CIC (Laskin et al., 2022) 609, BeCL (Yang et al., 2023) 610 and our proposed method (e.g., the method 300 with PEAC) 611. For every algorithm, there are 3 embodiment settings (two-leg walker with different masses, quadruped robot with different masses, and quadruped robot with different dampings) , each trained with 10 seeds and fine-tuned under 4 downstream tasks, thus each statistic for every method has 120 runs.
FIG. 7 shows a chart 700 for aggregate metrics (Agarwal et al., 2021) in image-based DMC (Deepmind control, Tassa et al., 2018) , comprising four sub-charts 720, 730, 740 and 750 representing median, IQM, mean, optimality gap, respectively. Horizontal axis denotes an expert normalized score, and the vertical axis denotes approaches comprising ICM 701, RND 702, Plan2Explore (Sekar et al., 2020) 703, APT (Liu &Abbeel, 2021) 704, LBS 705, Choreographer (Mazzaglia et al., 2022) 706, our proposed method (e.g., the method 400 with PEAC combined with LBS) 707, DIAYN 708, APS 709, LSD (Park et al., 2022) 710, CIC 711, and our proposed method (e.g., the method 500 with PEAC combined with DIAYN) . For every algorithm, there are 3 embodiment settings (same as FIG. 6) , each trained with 3 seeds and fine-tuned under 4 downstream tasks, thus each statistic for every method has 36 runs.
In an example, the intrinsic reward (i.e., as defined in the equation (5) ) may be calculated for each state rather than the whole trajectory. Also, the embodiment discriminator may be used to classify the embodiment context via every state.
In an example, our proposed PEAC (e.g., as shown by pre-trained embodiment-aware control component 230) is flexible to combine with existing  unsupervised RL methods, such as exploration, skill discovery, or the like, in order to applicable to complicated environments, such as image-based observation. For example, PEAC can be easily integrated with exploration and skill discovery approaches by directly combining the intrinsic reward (i.e., as defined in the equation (5) ) with these approaches’ intrinsic rewards. This combination can achieve cross-embodiment exploration, i.e., balancing embodiment representation learning and unseen state exploration, and also can extend existing skill discovery approaches into an embodiment-aware version.
FIG. 8 illustrates an example of a hardware implementation for an apparatus 800 according to one or more aspects of the present disclosure. The apparatus 800 for RL may comprise a memory 810 and at least one processor 820. The processor 820 may be coupled to the memory 810 and configured to implement the methods 300, 400, 500 and/or frameworks 200 described above with reference to FIGs. 2, 3, 4 and 5. The processor 820 may be a general-purpose processor, or may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices, e.g., a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor, multiple microprocessors, one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core, or any other such configuration. The memory 810 may store the input data, output data, data generated and/or processed (e.g., parameters of the neural networks) by processor 820, and/or instructions executed by processor 820.
The various operations, models, and networks described in connection with the disclosure herein may be implemented in hardware, software executed by a processor, firmware, or any combination thereof. According an embodiment of the disclosure, a computer program product for RL may comprise processor executable computer code for implementation of the methods 300, 400, 500 and/or frameworks 200 described above with reference to FIGs. 2, 3, 4 and 5. According to another embodiment of the disclosure, a computer readable medium may store computer code for RL, the computer code when executed by a processor may cause the processor to implement the methods 300, 400, 500 and/or frameworks 200 described above with reference to FIGs. 2, 3, 4 and 5. Computer-readable media includes both non-transitory computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. Any connection may be properly termed as a computer-readable medium. Other  embodiments and implementations are within the scope of the disclosure.
The preceding description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the various embodiments. Various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art, and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments without departing from the scope of the various embodiments. Thus, the claims are not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the following claims and the principles and novel features disclosed herein.
Claims (11)
Hide Dependent 
A computer-implemented method for reinforcement learning, comprising:
obtaining state-action pairs with a policy by controlling a plurality of embodiments to interact with an environment, wherein the policy is initialized by parameters of a neural network;
estimating embodiment contexts for distinguishing among the plurality of embodiments based on the state-action pairs;
obtaining a trained policy by updating the parameters of the neural network based on the state-action pairs and the embodiment contexts; and
adjusting the trained policy based on rewards of a plurality of tasks implemented by the plurality of embodiments.
The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the estimating the embodiment contexts further comprises:
estimating, based on the state-action pairs, a posterior probability of the environment characterized by a Markovian Decision Process (MDP) being adapted to each of the plurality of embodiments.
The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the obtaining the trained policy further comprises using an intrinsic reward across the plurality of embodiments to explore a region with a low estimated posterior probability.
The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the MDP comprises a transition kernel adaptable for each of the plurality of embodiments, and the MDP comprises a state space and an action space that are common to all of the plurality of embodiments.
The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the method is capable of integrating with at least one of an exploration approach or a skill-discovery approach.
The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of embodiments comprise at least one of a two-leg robot with different masses, a quadruped robot with different masses, a quadruped robot different dampings, or a robot with different damaged joints.
The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of tasks comprise run, climb, leap, crawl and tilt.
The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the adjusted trained policy is used to control a robot with different physical forms to handle the plurality of tasks.
An apparatus for reinforcement learning, comprising:
a memory; and
at least one processor coupled to the memory and configured to perform the method of one of claims 1-8.
A computer program product for reinforcement learning, comprising: processor executable computer code for performing the method of one of claims 1-8.
A computer readable medium, storing computer code for reinforcement learning, the computer code when executed by a processor, causing the processor to perform the method of one of claims 1-8.

KR20130010182A：

Description
작업 기술을 학습하는 방법 및 이에 따른 로봇{Method for learning task skill and robot using thereof}
본 발명은 작업 기술 학습에 관한 것으로, 특히 인간이 행동하는 작업 기술을 로봇과 같은 인공물이 스스로 학습하여 해당 작업을 인공물이 단독으로 수행할 수 있도록 작업 기술을 학습하는 방법, 그 방법을 기록한 기록매체 및 그 방법을 이용한 로봇에 관한 것이다.
인공 지능(artificial intelligence, AI)이라 함은, 인간의 지능으로 할 수 있는 사고, 학습, 자기계발 등을 컴퓨터가 할 수 있도록 하는 방법을 연구하는 컴퓨터 공학 및 정보기술의 한 분야로서, 컴퓨터가 인간의 지능적인 행동을 모방할 수 있도록 하는 기술을 말한다. 이러한 인공지능은 그 자체로 존재하는 것이 아니라, 컴퓨터 과학의 다른 분야와 직간접으로 많은 관련을 맺고 있다. 특히, 현대에는 정보 기술의 여러 분야에서 인공지능적 요소를 도입하여 그 분야의 문제 풀이에 활용하려는 시도가 매우 활발하게 이루어지고 있다.
이상과 같이 인간의 행동을 모방하려는 시도는 학습 로봇이라는 기술 분야의 발전을 가져왔다. 종래의 로봇 공학에서 산업용 로봇 등이 단지 잘 설계된 일련의 명령어 집합을 입력받아 이에 해당하는 명령만을 기계적으로 수행하였던 것에 반해, 현대의 학습 로봇은 주위 환경으로부터 다양한 환경 요소들을 로봇 스스로가 감지하고, 이로부터 인간에게 유용한 다양한 작업 기술(task skill)을 학습할 수 있는 수준을 지향하고 있다. 이러한 학습 로봇(비록 로봇이라고 표현하였으나, 하드웨어 로봇 이외에 가상 공간에서 활용될 수 있는 소프트웨어로 구현된 가상 생명체 내지 인공물을 포함할 수 있다.)에 있어서, 학습(learning)의 목표는 경험을 통한 일반화에 의해 인공지능 추론 시스템의 잠재적 성능을 향상시키는 것에 있다. 즉, 학습 알고리즘에 입력되는 것은 실험(experiment)이 될 것이고, 그 결과에 따라 지식 베이스(knowledge base)에 대한 수정들이 그 학습 알고리즘에서 출력될 것이다.
이러한 지식 베이스에 저장되는 지식 표현(knowledge representation)은 지식의 추출 및 저장을 표현하는 역할을 한다. 이 개념은 지식, 특징 추출 및 열거(enumeration), 객체 상태의 구성 및 정의들을 일반화하는 기술을 제공하기도 한다. 그 자체를 구현하기 위해서는 일반적으로 그래프, 벡터 및 테이블 등의 공지된 데이터 구조를 활용할 수 있다.
나아가, 학습 로봇이 주위로부터 수집한 정보를 가공하여 새로운 지식을 생성, 저장하기 위해서는 인간의 사고 패턴과 유사한 추론(reasoning)이 요구된다. 학습 로봇에서 자동화된 추론은 지식 표현 및 인지를 이용하는 알고리즘을 결합하여 새로운 결론을 이끌어내고, 질문 및 답변을 추측해 내며, 수행하고자 하는 목표를 달성하게 된다. 인공 지능 추론의 예로는 다음과 같은 개념적 프레임워크들이 있다. 즉, 규칙 베이스(rule base)(추론을 위한 인지된 상태 및 지식 베이스에 대하여 시스템 규칙들이 평가된다.), 검색 시스템(이용 가능한 지식 및 목표에 따라 지식 결론의 검색을 위해 주지의 데이터 구조를 이용한다. 예를 들어, 결정 트리, 상태 그래프, 미니맥스 결정(minimax decision) 등이 활용될 수 있다.) 및 분류기(classifier)(분류기 추론 시스템의 목적은 분류 태그(classification tag)가 없는 실험으로서 표현되는 인지 상태(perceived state)를 분류하기 위한 것이다.) 등이 있다. 미리 분류된(pre-classified) 지식베이스에 따라 분류기는 새로운 실험의 분류를 추측해낼 수 있다.
그런데 현재까지 연구자들이 제안하고 있는 이러한 작업 기술 학습 방법은 여전히 일단 학습된 작업 기술을 재사용하거나, 향상시키는데 제약이 존재한다. 특히, 종래의 작업 기술 학습 방법은 이하의 비특허문헌에서도 제시하고 있는 인간의 진화 단계에 따른 지능 및 인지 능력의 발전 단계를 충실하게 반영하고 있지 못하고, 그로 인해 인간 수준의 작업 기술 학습 지능을 구현하는 데에는 어려움이 존재하였다.
Joshua B. Tenenbaum, How to Grow a Mind: Statistics, Structure, and Abstraction. Science 331, 1279, 2011.
본 발명이 해결하고자 하는 기술적 과제는 종래의 작업 기술을 학습하는 방법에서 입력 데이터가 한정되고, 이에 따라 학습된 작업 기술을 재사용하는 것이 제한되는 한계를 극복하고, 학습 로봇 스스로가 이미 학습된 작업 기술을 향상시키고 추가할 수 없을 뿐만 아니라, 주위 환경 내에 복수 개의 작업 객체가 존재하는 경우 수행하여야 하는 작업을 정확하게 인식하지 못하는 문제점을 해소하고자 한다.
상기 기술적 과제를 해결하기 위하여, 본 발명의 일 실시예에 따른 작업 기술을 학습하는 방법은, 적어도 하나 이상의 프로세서(processor)를 구비한 학습 엔진(learning engine)에 의해 제어 가능한 메소드(method) 및 상기 메소드에 따라 주위 환경으로부터 감지된 미가공 정보(raw data)를 입력받는 단계; 계층적으로 연결된 복수 개의 분류 체계를 이용하여 상기 입력된 메소드 및 미가공 정보로부터 복수 개의 동작 패턴들을 추출하는 단계; 및 상기 추출된 동작 패턴들 간의 연관 관계에 따라 작업 기술 그룹을 생성하는 단계를 포함한다.
상기된 작업 기술을 학습하는 방법에서 상기 복수 개의 동작 패턴들을 추출하는 단계는, 미리 저장된 복수 개의 분류 체계 중 어느 하나에 따른 하위 계층 분류기를 이용하여 상기 입력된 메소드 및 미가공 정보로부터 동작 패턴을 추출하는 단계; 및 상기 분류 체계 내의 계층적 연결 관계에 따라 상기 하위 계층 분류기에 연결된 상위 계층 분류기를 이용하여 상기 추출된 동작 패턴으로부터 또 다른 동작 패턴을 추출하는 과정을 소정 회수만큼 반복하는 단계를 포함한다.
또한, 상기된 작업 기술을 학습하는 방법은, 상기 입력된 미가공 정보 중, 현재의 작업 기술과 연관된 정보만을 실시간으로 필터링(filtering)하는 단계를 더 포함한다.
나아가, 이하에서는 상기 기재된 작업 기술을 학습하는 방법을 컴퓨터에서 실행시키기 위한 프로그램을 기록한 컴퓨터로 읽을 수 있는 기록매체를 제공한다.
한편, 상기 기술적 과제를 해결하기 위하여, 본 발명의 다른 실시예에 따른 작업 기술을 학습하는 로봇은, 미리 정의된 메소드에 따라 주위 환경을 감지하는 적어도 하나 이상의 센서; 적어도 하나 이상의 프로세서를 구비하고, 상기 메소드를 제어하여 상기 센서로부터 미가공 정보를 입력받고, 계층적으로 연결된 복수 개의 분류 체계를 이용하여 상기 메소드 및 상기 입력된 미가공 정보로부터 복수 개의 동작 패턴들을 추출하며, 상기 추출된 동작 패턴들 간의 연관 관계에 따라 작업 기술 그룹을 생성하는 학습 엔진; 및 상기 학습 엔진이 생성한 작업 기술 그룹을 참조하여 상기 센서를 통해 감지된 미가공 정보에 대응하는 작업 기술을 수행하는 구동부를 포함한다.
또한, 상기된 작업 기술을 학습하는 로봇에서 상기 학습 엔진은, 상기 입력된 미가공 정보 중, 현재의 작업 기술과 연관된 정보만을 실시간으로 필터링한다.
본 발명의 실시예들은 계층적으로 연결된 복수 개의 분류 체계를 이용하여 미가공 정보로부터 복수 개의 작업 기술을 추출하고 조직화함으로써 이미 학습된 작업 기술을 재사용할 수 있고, 학습 로봇 스스로가 이미 학습된 작업 기술을 향상시키고 추가할 수 있을 뿐만 아니라, 주위 환경 내에 복수 개의 작업 객체가 존재하는 경우에도 이미 학습된 작업 기술 그룹을 참조하여 현재의 작업 기술과 연관된 정보만을 실시간으로 필터링함으로써 수행하여야 하는 작업을 정확하게 인식할 수 있다.
도 1은 본 발명이 실시예들이 채택하고 있는 작업 기술 학습 엔진의 구조를 계층화하여 도시한 도면이다.
도 2는 본 발명의 일 실시예에 따른 학습 엔진이 작업 기술을 학습하는 방법을 도시한 흐름도이다.
도 3은 본 발명의 일 실시예에 따른 도 2의 학습 방법에서 복수 개의 동작 방법을 추출하는 과정을 보다 구체적으로 도시한 흐름도이다.
도 4는 본 발명의 다른 실시예에 따른 학습 엔진이 작업 기술을 학습하는 방법을 도시한 흐름도로서, 주위 환경 내에 복수 개의 작업 객체가 존재하는 상황 하에서 수행하여야 하는 작업을 정확하게 인식하는 방법을 설명하기 위한 도면이다.
도 5는 본 발명의 또 다른 실시예에 따른 작업 기술을 학습하는 로봇을 도시한 블록도이다.
도 6은 본 발명의 또 다른 실시예에 따른 도 5의 학습 로봇의 전체 시스템 구성도를 예시한 도면이다.
본 발명의 실시예들을 설명하기에 앞서 본 발명의 실시예들이 구현되는 환경에 대해 간략히 소개하고, 실시예들이 구현되는 환경에서 발생하고 있는 구현상의 문제점을 제시하고자 한다.
작업 기술 학습 분야에서 발견되는 종래의 연구들을 검토할 때, 이들 연구들은 작업 기술 학습을 위한 입력 데이터에 있어서 '조인트', '위치', '속도 정보' 등으로 한정되어 있고, 학습된 작업 기술을 재사용하는 것이 어렵다는 점이 한계로 지적되었다. 또한, 학습 로봇 스스로가 작업 기술을 향상시키고, 추가하는 능력이 부족하다. 예를 들어, 확률 모델(GMM, GMR 등)이나 DMP(dynammic movement primitives)와 같은 학습 모델에서 대상 데이터의 수는 1 개 내지 10 개 정도의 적은 수의 값이고, 이에 따라 학습 가능한 작업 기술 역시 1 개 내지 2 개에 지나지 않는다.
나아가, 학습 지능 아키텍처 분야에서 발견되는 연구들의 한계점과 관련하여, 계층적 베이시안 모델(Hierarchical Bayesian Models, HBMs)의 경우에는 심볼 수준(symbolic level)에서는 적용이 가능하지만, 하위 수준(low level) 데이터에 적용하는 데에는 검증되지 않았다는 점이 문제점으로 지적된다. 또한, Deep Belief Networks(DBNs)의 경우에는 복잡한 실제 이미지(real image)를 적용하여 학습에 수행한 예가 거의 없고, 하위 수준 특징(low level feature)의 차원(dimension)이 클 경우 학습이 어려우며, 학습 시 피드백 상호작용(feedback interaction)이 없다는 점이 문제점으로 지적된다.
한편, 인식 분야에서 발견되는 연구들의 한계점은 HMAX나 계층적 공간 메모리(Hierarchical Temporal Memory, HTM)의 경우에는 배경이 복잡하거나 복수의 물체가 존재할 경우 인식이 힘들다는 점이 문제점으로 지적되었다. 앞서 설명한 바와 같이 주위 환경으로부터 다수의 입력이 존재하는 경우, HTM에 따른 학습 방법에서는 현재 학습하여야 하는 대상을 정확하게 인식하지 못하는 문제점이 존재하는데, 이는 이미 학습된 작업 기술들을 실시간으로 활용하지 못하며, 이러한 작업 기술들을 참조하여 다수의 입력 중에서 불필요한 입력을 배제할 수 있는 지능이 없기 때문이다.
따라서, 이하에서 제시될 본 발명의 실시예들은 인간의 학습 기작을 모방하여 인공물(예를 들어, 가상 공간에서의 아바타 또는 로봇이 될 수 있다.) 스스로가 진화할 수 있는 학습 지능 아키텍처를 제안하고, 이를 기반으로 하여 인간과 인공물간의 작업 기술을 스스로 학습하고 사용할 수 있는 작업 기술 학습(task skill learning)에 관한 기술적 수단을 구비한다. 이를 위해, 본 발명의 실시예들은 기술 학습 엔진(Skill Learning Engine), 인식 엔진(Recognition Engine) 및 이들로부터 수집된 정보에 기초하여 자가 학습이 가능한 계층적 구조의 작업 기술 학습 엔진(Task Skill Learning Engine)을 포함할 수 있다.
특히, 작업 기술 학습 엔진은 생체를 모방하여 진화하는 학습 지능 아키텍처로써 생명체의 진화 단계를 높은 수준에서 낮은 수준까지 4 단계(Gregorian, Popperian, Skinnerian, Darwinian, 이하 GPSD로 약술하도록 한다.)로 구분하고, 각 진화 단계마다 적절한 학습 수준을 정의하였다. 또한, 각 단계의 학습 지능이 다른 단계의 학습 지능과 어떠한 연결 관계를 갖는지에 대해서 정의함으로써 이를 기술적 수단에 대응시켜 구현할 수 있도록 하였다. 이러한 GPSD 학습 엔진(계층적 구조의 작업 기술 학습 엔진을 의미한다.)은 가공되지 않고, 분류되지 않은 원시 데이터(unfiltered pattern)로부터 작업 기술에 필요한 기술의 개념 계층(concept hierarchy)을 학습하기 위한 하나의 수단으로써, 본 발명의 실시예들은 이러한 학습 엔진에 기반하여 각각 기술 학습 엔진과 인식 엔진을 결합하여 제어하게 된다.
한편, 인식 엔진은 인간의 대뇌신피질의 인지 구조를 모방한 인식 장치로써, 작업 기술을 학습하기 위해 주위 환경 및 작업 객체를 인식할 수 있는 기술적 수단을 제공한다. 또한, 기술 학습 엔진은 기술의 학습 및 재조합(recombination), 자기 수용 센서(proprioceptive sensor) 및 외부 수용 센서(exteroceptive sensor)의 효율적인 센서 융합 학습 기술을 포함한다.
나아가, 본 발명의 실시예들은 인간 수준의 작업 기술을 학습하기 위해 주위 환경에 존재하는 수 많은 감지 정보 중에서 인공물 스스로가 작업 기술 학습에 필요한 정보에만 집중할 수 있는 기능이 필요하다. 왜냐하면, 주위 환경에 존재하는 다수의 감지 정보 그대로를 수용하고 분석할 경우, 현재 인공물이 수행하여야 하는 작업 기술이 무엇인지, 현재 어떠한 동작이 요구되는지 등을 정확히 인지할 수 없기 때문이다. 따라서, 이러한 다수의 감지 정보를 적절히 필터링하여 이들 정보 중, 현재의 작업 기술에 직접적으로 연관되는 정보 및 이러한 정보를 감지하는 센서에 집중(attention)할 필요가 있다.
이하에서는 도면을 참조하여 이상에서 소개한 본 발명의 아이디어를 실체화할 수 있는 본 발명의 실시예들을 보다 구체적으로 설명한다.
도 1은 본 발명이 실시예들이 채택하고 있는 작업 기술 학습 엔진의 구조를 계층화하여 도시한 도면으로서, 특히 계층적 구조를 갖는 GPSD 학습 엔진을 예시하였다. 앞서 소개한 바와 같이 GPSD는 Gregorian, Popperian, Skinnerian 및 Darwinian을 의미한다. 이러한 GPSD는 통상적으로 진화의 관점에서 생명체를 분류하는 학술적 개념이나, 본 발명의 실시예들은 이러한 생명체의 진화 과정으로부터 인간의 인지 구조를 모방하여 학습 엔진으로서 구현하는 기술적 수단을 제안하는 바이다. 이하에서는 각각의 단계들을 하위 계층에서 상위 계층의 순서로 차례로 설명한다.
첫째, Darwinian은 일반적으로 생명체의 진화 단계 중 가장 낮은 단계로서, 곤충 수준 정도의 간단한 생명체가 이 단계에 해당한다. Darwinian 수준의 개체는 생존 기간 중의 학습 능력은 없지만, 종의 학습 능력은 있기 때문에 생존을 하기 적합한 형태로 종의 외형이 진화한다.
둘째, Skinnerian 단계의 생명체는 개나 고양이와 같이 생존 기간 중 간단한 학습 능력을 가진 생명체에 해당한다. Skinnerian 단계의 학습 능력은 각 개체의 센서를 통해 얻은 미가공 패턴(unfiltered pattern)을 필터링(filtering)하여 각 개체가 이해할 수 있는 패턴(pattern)으로 바꾸는 능력을 갖는다. 예를 들어, 개는 눈을 통해 감지한 정보를 이용하여 주인과 주인이 아닌 사람을 구별할 수 있다. 이와 같은 능력은 개의 생존 기간 초기에 학습된다. 즉, Skinnerian 단계의 생명체는 감지 수단을 통해 입력된 원시 데이터로부터 간단한 패턴을 추출하여 처리할 수 있는 수준의 학습 지능을 갖는다.
셋째, Popperian 단계의 생명체는 원숭이와 같이 단순히 패턴을 분류하는 능력 뿐만 아니라, 패턴들을 통해 이들 패턴들을 정의하는 메타-패턴(meta-pattern)을 학습하는 능력을 가진다. 예를 들어, 원숭이가 막대기를 이용해 높은 나무에 달린 열매를 따는 방법을 배우게 되었다고 가정하자. 비록, 이 원숭이가 야구 방망이를 이용해 높은 나무에 달린 열매를 따는 방법을 직접 학습하지는 않았더라도, 메타-패턴의 레벨에서는 막대기와 야구 방망이가 열매를 따기 위한 유사한 물체라는 것을 판단할 수 있다. 즉, Popperian 단계의 생명체는 개별적인 하위 레벨의 개체들로부터 상위 레벨의 개념을 도출할 수 있다.
넷째, Gregorian 단계의 대표적인 생명체는 인간이다. 인간은 메타-패턴을 학습하는 능력 뿐만 아니라, 언어를 사용하고 심볼 간의 연관 관계를 다양한 형태로 확장, 변형하여 기억할 수 있다. 따라서, Gregorian 단계의 생명체는 메타-패턴 또는 단일 패턴의 정보들로부터 상호 연관 관계를 추출하고, 이들 정보들을 구조화하여 새로운 연관 관계와 규칙을 생성할 수 있다.
이상과 같은 GPSD에 대한 개념에 근거하여 본 발명의 실시예들은 GPSD 학습 엔진을 설계하였다.
GPSD 학습 엔진 있어서 Darwinian 수준에서의 실제적 학습은 존재하지 않는다. 다만 각 인공물의 하드웨어 또는 소프트웨어의 명세(specification)이 Darwinian의 학습된 결과로 간주될 수 있다. 이러한 하드웨어 또는 소프트웨어의 명세는 학습 엔진이 제어 가능한 하드웨어 장치 또는 소프트웨어의 수행 모듈(module)을 의미하며, 이하에서는 이러한 명세를 메소드(method)라는 용어로서 명명하도록 한다. 즉, 학습 엔진은 미리 구현된 하드웨어 또는 소프트웨어를 통해 제어 가능한 수준이 정의되었으므로, 약속된 규칙에 따라 이러한 메소드들을 제어할 수 있게 된다. 예를 들어, 하드웨어 장치를 제어하기 위해서는 미리 설치된 하드웨어 드라이버를 통해 제어 명령을 전달할 수 있고, 소프트웨어 모듈을 제어하기 위해서는 미리 약속된 함수 또는 파라메터를 호출할 수 있을 것이다. 필요에 따라서는 이러한 제어를 위해 별도의 통신 인터페이스가 활용될 수도 있을 것이다.
Skinnerian 단계의 능력인 미가공 패턴(unfiltered pattern)에서 의미있는 정보에 해당하는 패턴을 찾아내기 위해서는 도 1에 예시된 바와 같이 다양한 분류(classification) 방법들이 활용될 수 있다. 본 발명이 속하는 기술 분야에서 통상의 지식을 가진 자는 이러한 분류를 위해 SVM, 신경망(Neural Network), HMM, 클러스터링(clustering, k-means) 방법 등이 활용될 수 있음을 알 수 있다. 그러나, 이러한 종래의 분류기들은 다양하고 복잡한 상황에서 패턴을 분류하는데 효과적으로 사용되고 있지 못한다. 따라서, 본 발명의 실시예들은 이러한 문제를 해결하기 위해 도 1에 제시된 바와 같은 계층적 순환적 모델(Hierarchical Recurrent Model)을 제안하는 바이다.
이러한 계층적 순환적 모델은 분류나 클러스터링 과정을 한번에 수행하는 것이 아니라, 복수 개의 분류기를 계층적으로 연결하여 하나의 분류기를 통해 생성된 결과가 그 다음 분류기의 입력으로 할당되는 계층적 연결 구조를 채택한다. 또한, 본 발명의 실시예들이 채택하고 있는 계층적 순환적 모델은 상위 분류기의 결과가 다시 하위 분류기의 분류 과정을 지원하는 피트백 연결 구조를 형성한다. 즉, 순환적 구조를 가질 수 있다. 이러한 계층적 순환적 모델을 통해 단일 분류기에 의한 학습이 아닌 다양한 분류기를 종합적으로 활용함으로써 미가공 패턴으로부터 보다 정교하고 다양한 면(aspect)을 갖는 유의미한 패턴을 추출하는 것이 가능하다.
Popperian 단계에서는 앞서 소개한 바와 같이 메타-패턴(meta-pattern)을 학습한다. 이를 위해 본 발명의 실시예들은 도 1에 도시된 같이 Skinnerian 단계에서 인식된 패턴들의 관계가 트리 형태(tree type)인지 또는 체인 형태(chain type)인지 등의 데이터 구조를 판단한다. 즉, Popperian 단계에서는 판별된 데이터 구조를 활용하여 발견된 패턴들 간의 상호 관련성에 대한 기초 정보를 제공한다.
이러한 데이터 구조에 관한 정보는 Gregorian 단계에서 개념 학습(concept learning)을 위한 중요한 정보로 사용된다. 즉, Gregorian 단계에서는 개념 학습을 통해 최초의 Darwinian 단계의 센서로부터 얻어진 미가공 패턴들로부터 관계를 발견하고, 이러한 관계들을 조직화하고 구조화하여 지식(knowledge)을 생성한다.
예를 들어, 작업 기술 학습의 경우 숙련된 요리사의 요리 과정을 통해 요리 기술들을 학습한 인공물은 본 발명의 실시예들이 제안하는 GPSD 학습 엔진을 통해 인공물 각각이 가지는 센서의 비가공 정보로부터 요리에 필요한 다양한 개념(concept) 간의 관계를 학습하게 된다. 즉, 종래의 학습 방법이 단지 요리사의 요리 과정 그 자체만을 학습하여 모방할 수 있었는데 반해, 본 발명의 실시예들이 제안하는 GPSD 학습 엔진은 작업 객체에 대한 정의, 범주화, 사용 가능한 작업 기술에 대한 학습 지능을 스스로 생성할 수 있다는 점에서 매우 큰 차이점을 갖는다. 따라서, GPSD 학습 엔진은 기호에 대한 기초적인 정의 및 분류가 존재하지 않는 상황에서 작업 객체에 대한 실질적인 대응이 어려운 심볼 그라운딩(symbol grounding) 문제를 해결하기 위한 하나의 기술적 수단을 제공한다.
도 2는 본 발명의 일 실시예에 따른 학습 엔진(learning engine)이 작업 기술을 학습하는 방법을 도시한 흐름도로서, 다음과 같은 단계들을 포함한다.
210 단계에서 학습 엔진은 학습 엔진에 의해 제어 가능한 메소드(method) 및 상기 메소드에 따라 주위 환경으로부터 감지된 미가공 정보(raw data, unfiltered pattern)를 입력받는다. 이 때, 학습 엔진은 앞서 소개한 GPSD 학습 엔진을 의미하는 것으로, 이러한 학습 엔진은 적어도 하나 이상의 프로세서(processor)를 구비함으로써 작업 기술을 학습하기 위한 일련의 연산을 수행한다. 한편, 메소드는 앞서 도 1을 통해 소개한 바와 같이 학습 엔진이 사용 가능한 하드웨어 또는 소프트웨어를 제어할 수 있는 기술적 수단을 의미한다.
220 단계에서 학습 엔진은 계층적으로 연결된 복수 개의 분류 체계를 이용하여 210 단계를 통해 입력된 메소드 및 미가공 정보로부터 복수 개의 동작 패턴들을 추출한다. 이러한 분류 체계를 형성하기 위해서 미가공 정보들을 분류하는 다양한 분류기들이 활용될 수 있으며, 이러한 분류기들은 계층적 구조로 연결되고, 상호 작용한다. 또한, 이러한 분류 체계를 통해 생성된 결과(동작 패턴)가 재차 분류 체계의 입력값으로 주어질 수 있음을 앞서 설명한 바 있다. 특히, 이러한 반복적 피드백 구조는 학습 엔진을 활용하고자 하는 해당 영역(domain)의 의미있는 개념들을 충실히 반영할 수 있도록 전문가 집단(expert group)에 의해 조직화될 수 있으며, 반복적인 학습을 통해 정제될 수 있다. 동작 패턴을 추출하는 보다 구체적인 과정은 이후 도 3을 통해 다시 설명한다.
230 단계에서 학습 엔진은 220 단계를 통해 추출된 동작 패턴들 간의 연관 관계에 따라 작업 기술 그룹을 생성한다. 여기서, 작업 기술 그룹은 시간적 순서 및 공간적 배치에 따라 분류된 단위 동작을 하나 또는 둘 이상 조합하여 저장할 수 있다. 예를 들어, 요리사가 양파를 잘게 다지는 과정은, 양파를 도마 위에 가져오고, 양파의 일측 면으로부터 반대측 면으로 칼을 조금씩 이동시키면서 써는 동작을 반복해야만 한다. 따라서, 양파를 집는 동작, 양파를 도마 위에 위치시키는 동작, 칼로 써는 동작 등은 모두 하나의 단위 동작을 이룬다. 작업 기술과 관련하여 하나의 작업 기술이 하나의 단위 동작만으로 구성될 수도 있으나, 통상적인 경우 2 개 이상의 단위 동작들이 조합되어 시간적 순서에 따라, 또한 공간적 배치에 따라 연속된 동작을 수행함으로써 목표를 달성할 수 있다. 또한, 동일한 단위 동작들을 조합하더라도 그 순서에 따라서 작업 기술은 전혀 달라질 수 있을 것이다. 따라서, 230 단계의 연관 관계에 따라 본 실시예의 학습 엔진은 주어진 상황에 적합한 작업 기술을 생성할 수 있게 된다.
도 3은 본 발명의 일 실시예에 따른 도 2의 학습 방법에서 복수 개의 동작 방법을 추출하는 과정을 보다 구체적으로 도시한 흐름도로서, 여기서는 중복을 피하기 위해 도 2와 차별화되는 미가공 정보를 입력받는 단계(210 단계) 및 작업 기술 그룹을 생성하는 단계(230 단계)에 대해서는 그 설명을 생략한다. 210 단계를 통해 입력된 메소드 및 미가공 정보로부터 복수 개의 동작 패턴들을 추출하는 단계는 다음과 같다.
221 단계에서 학습 엔진은 미리 저장된 복수 개의 분류 체계 중 어느 하나에 따른 하위 계층 분류기를 이용하여 210 단계를 통해 입력된 메소드 및 미가공 정보로부터 동작 패턴을 추출한다.
222 단계에서 학습 엔진은 분류 체계 내의 계층적 연결 관계에 따라 하위 계층 분류기에 연결된 상위 계층 분류기를 이용하여 221 단계를 통해 추출된 동작 패턴으로부터 또 다른 동작 패턴을 추출하는 과정을 일정 회수만큼 반복한다. 이 때, 일정 회수는 본 발명이 속하는 기술 분야에서 통상의 지식 가진 자에 의해 달라질 수 있는 것으로, 학습 엔진이 구현되는 환경에 따라 적절하게 설정될 수 있다.
나아가, 상기된 복수 개의 동작 패턴들을 추출하는 단계는 학습 기술의 품질을 향상시키기 위해 필요에 따라 선택적으로 순환적 피드백(recurrent feedback) 사이클을 형성할 수 있다. 즉, 223 단계에서 학습 엔진은 상위 계층 분류기를 통해 추출된 동작 패턴을 복수 개의 분류 체계 중 어느 하나에 따른 하위 계층 분류기의 입력값으로 순환적 피드백할 수 있다.
이러한 과정을 통해 학습 로봇은 학습 엔진을 활용하고자 하는 해당 영역(domain)의 의미있는 개념들(패턴을 의미한다.)을 다각도에서 추출할 수 있게 되고, 이후 230 단계의 작업 기술 그룹의 생성을 통해 조직화할 수 있다.
도 4는 본 발명의 다른 실시예에 따른 학습 엔진이 작업 기술을 학습하는 방법을 도시한 흐름도로서, 주위 환경 내에 복수 개의 작업 객체가 존재하는 상황 하에서 수행하여야 하는 작업을 정확하게 인식하는 방법을 설명하기 위한 도면이다. 앞서 간단하게 설명한 바와 같이 주위 환경에 다수의 감지 대상이 존재하는 경우, 학습 엔진은 이러한 다수의 감지 객체의 이질적인 성질로 인해 상황 인식이 어려울 뿐만 아니라, 이로 인해 현재 수행하여야 하는 작업 기술이 무엇인지 여부를 정확하게 판단할 수 없다. 따라서, 도 4에서는 이러한 환경 하에서 주된 작업 기술과는 무관한 입력 정보를 필터링을 통해 배제함으로써, 보다 정확한 상황 인식 및 작업 기술 수행을 달성할 수 있는 기술적 수단을 제안한다.
이를 위해 도 4에 제시된 본 발명의 실시예는 앞서 도 2를 통해 제시된 실시예의 각각의 구성 이외에 입력된 미가공 정보 중에서 현재의 작업 기술과 연관된 정보만을 실시간으로 필터링(filtering)하는 단계를 더 포함한다. 보다 구체적으로, 현재의 작업 기술과 연관된 정보만을 필터링하는 과정은 다음의 단계들을 포함한다.
213 단계에서 학습 엔진은 210 단계를 통해 미가공 정보를 입력받는 중, 입력되는 미가공 정보 및 이미 생성된 작업 기술 그룹을 참조하여 현재의 작업 기술을 실시간으로 판단한다. 또한, 학습 엔진은 이러한 판단 결과에 따라, 210 단계를 통해 입력되는 미가공 정보에 대해 판단된 현재의 작업 기술과의 연관도를 산출한다.
215 단계에서 학습 엔진은 213 단계를 통해 산출된 연관도가 특정 임계치(threashold) 이상인지 여부를 검사한다. 이 때, 임계치란 연관도가 일정 수준 이하인 경우 해당 정보는 현재의 작업 기술과 무관한 정보로서 결정하기 위해 설정된 일종의 기준값이다. 따라서, 본 발명이 속하는 기술 분야에서 통상의 지식을 가진 자는 본 발명의 실시예가 구현되는 환경 하에서 실험을 통해 이러한 임계치를 적절한 값으로 설정할 수 있다. 이제 215 단계를 통한 판단 결과, 산출된 연관도가 임계치보다 작은 경우에는 217 단계로 진행한다.
217 단계에서 학습 엔진은 동작 패턴들을 추출하는 220 단계 이전에 210 단계를 통해 입력된 미가공 정보 중에서 213 단계를 통해 산출된 연관도가 낮은 정보를 삭제한다. 즉, 이러한 217 단계를 통해 현재의 학습 기술과 관련이 없다고 판단된 입력 정보를 배제함으로써 학습 엔진으로 하여금 상대적으로 적은 수의 입력 정보에 집중할 수 있도록 하는 효과를 나타낸다.
이러한 213 단계 내지 217 단계의 일련의 연산 과정은 210 단계의 정보 입력 직후에, 또한 동작 패턴들을 추출하는 220 단계의 이전에 실시간으로 수행됨으로써 학습 로봇의 인식 성능을 향상시키고, 처리해야 할 데이터의 양과 수를 감소시킴으로써 효율적인 자원 운용을 가능하게 한다.
반면, 산출된 연관도가 임계치 이상인 경우에는 곧바로 220 단계로 진행한다. 220 단계 및 230 단계는 앞서 도 2를 통해 설명한 바와 동일하므로, 중복을 피하기 위해 여기서는 그 설명을 생략한다.
도 5는 본 발명의 또 다른 실시예에 따른 작업 기술을 학습하는 로봇(500)을 도시한 블록도로서, 여기서 로봇(500)이란, 물리적으로 현세계에 존재하는 기구 외에 가상의 공간 상에서 생성되어 운용되는 아바타와 같은 가상의 로봇이 될 수도 있다. 학습 로봇(500)은 크게 센서(10), 학습 엔진(20) 및 구동부(30)를 포함한다. 도 5의 구성에서 학습 엔진(20)은 앞서 도 2 내지 도 4를 통해 설명한 학습 방법의 구성 요소들에 대응하므로 여기서는 중복을 피하기 위해 그 개요만을 약술한다.
센서(10)는 미리 정의된 메소드에 따라 주위 환경을 감지하는 기술적 수단으로써, 본 실시예에 따른 로봇이 구현되는 환경에 따라 그 종류 및 수가 다양하게 구현되는 것이 가능하나, 적어도 하나 이상의 센서를 구비하는 것이 바람직하다. 이러한 센서(10)를 예를 들어, 카메라, 적외선 센서, 초음파 센서와 같이 주위 환경(50) 또는 작업 객체(70)를 인식하기 위한 센서와 구동 환경 내지 주위 환경(50) 또는 작업 객체(70)의 변화를 감지하여 토크(torque), 외력(force), 조인트(joint), 촉각(tactile) 등을 감지할 수 있는 움직임에 대한 센서 등이 활용될 수 있다.
학습 엔진(20)은 적어도 하나 이상의 프로세서를 구비하고, 미리 정의된 메소드를 제어하여 센서(10)로부터 미가공 정보를 입력받고, 계층적으로 연결된 복수 개의 분류 체계를 이용하여 메소드 및 센서(10)를 통해 입력된 미가공 정보로부터 복수 개의 동작 패턴들을 추출한다. 또한, 학습 엔진(20)은 추출된 동작 패턴들 간의 연관 관계에 따라 작업 기술 그룹을 생성함으로써 작업 기술을 구조화하고 조직화한다. 이 때, 이러한 작업 기술 그룹은 시간적 순서 및 공간적 배치에 따라 분류된 단위 동작을 하나 또는 둘 이상 조합하여 저장하는 것이 바람직하다. 즉, 이러한 조합된 작업 기술은 시퀀스 학습(sequence learn)에 따른 학습 결과가 된다.
구동부(30)는 학습 엔진(20)이 생성한 작업 기술 그룹을 참조하여 센서(10)를 통해 감지된 미가공 정보에 대응하는 작업 기술을 수행한다. 따라서, 본 발명의 실시예들이 속하는 기술 분야의 속성에 따라 이러한 구동부(30)는 다양한 형태의 하드웨어 장치로서 구현될 수 있다. 예를 들어, 학습 로봇(500)을 이동시키기 위한 모터가 포함될 수도 있고, 학습 로봇(500)으로 하여금 작업 객체(70)를 들거나 이동시키기 위한 로봇 암(robot arm)이 포함될 수도 있을 것이다.
한편, 이상의 학습 엔진(20)은, 센서(10)를 통해 입력된 미가공 정보 중, 현재의 작업 기술과 연관된 정보만을 실시간으로 필터링할 수 있다. 이를 위해, 학습 엔진(20)은 미가공 정보를 입력받는 중, 입력되는 미가공 정보 및 이미 생성된 작업 기술 그룹을 참조하여 현재의 작업 기술을 실시간으로 판단하고, 판단 결과에 따라, 입력되는 미가공 정보에 대해 판단된 현재의 작업 기술과의 연관도를 산출한다. 이렇게 산출된 연관도를 참조하여, 학습 엔진(20)은 동작 패턴들을 추출하는 단계 이전에 입력된 미가공 정보 중에서 산출된 연관도가 낮은 정보를 삭제함으로써 작업 기술과의 연관도가 높은 정보만에 집중할 수 있다.
도 6은 본 발명의 또 다른 실시예에 따른 도 5의 학습 로봇의 전체 시스템 구성도를 예시한 도면이다. 본 실시예는 인간-인공물(아바타 또는 로봇을 의미한다.) 간의 작업 기술을 스스로 학습하고 사용하기 위하여 필요로 하는 인간수준의 작업 기술 학습지능(Task Skill Learning)을 구현하기 위한 보다 실질적인 기술 수단을 제시하고 있다. 도 6을 통해서, 학습 로봇은 요리사가 스파게티를 만드는 과정을 여러 차례 관찰함으로써 스파게티를 만들기 위한 기본적인 단위 기술들을 학습하고, 이러한 단위 기술들을 조합하여 상황에 맞도록 스파게티를 요리하고자 하는 상황을 가정하자.
도 6에서 본 실시예에 따른 학습 로봇은 GPSD 학습 엔진, 기술 학습 엔진(계층적 구조의 GPSD 학습 엔진과는 달리, 단순 모방 학습을 수행하는 학습 엔진을 의미한다.) 및 인식 엔진의 세 부분으로 구성된다.
우선, 인식 엔진은 기술 학습을 위해 필요한 주위 환경 및 작업 객체에 대한 인식을 지원한다. 시각 기반 인식은 생명체의 발전 단계 중 Skinnerian 단계의 능력에 해당한다. 즉, 미가공 정보/패턴인 원시 영상 정보로부터 의미 있는 패턴을 구분해내는 능력이 요구된다. 앞서 설명한 바와 같이 패턴을 보다 효과적으로 구분하기 위해서 본 발명의 실시예들은 GPSD 학습 엔진이 채택하고 있는 계층적 순환적 모델을 사용하고 있다. 이 모델은 인식 엔진과 결합되어, 계층적 순환적 모델은 입식 엔진을 통해 입력된 미가공 정보를 입력받고, 이로부터 유의미한 패턴을 추출한다. 이러한 방법은 인간의 대뇌신피질의 인지 구조를 모방한 인식 기술으로써, 기존의 패턴 인식 알고리즘들이 분류하지 못했던 복잡하고 다양한 환경 하에서의 물체를 강인하게 인식할 수 있도록 한다. 이렇게 인식된 결과는 GPSD 학습 엔진의 또 다른 특징인 반복적 피드백 구조에 따라 인식 엔진에 재차 제공될 수 있다.
다음으로, 기술 학습 엔진은 기초 기술(basis skill)의 학습 및 재조합(Recombination), 자기 수용 센서(proprioceptive sensor)(예를 들어, 2D 카메라 또는 3D 입체 감지 카메라가 활용될 수 있다.) 및 외부 수용 센서(exteroceptive sensor)(예를 들어, 토크/외력, 조인트, 촉각 센서가 활용될 수 있다.)의 효율적인 센서 융합 학습 기술을 포함한다. 기초 기술을 학습하고, 이들을 재조합하는 기술은 적은 수의 기초 기술의 학습으로부터 무한히 다양한 직업 기술을 습득하기 위해 매우 유용하게 활용될 수 있다.
한편, 기존의 작업 기술 학습 방법의 경우에는 작업 도중 작업의 대상이 변형되는(deformable) 경우와 같이 복잡하고 정교한 작업은 수행하지 못했다. 그러나, 본 실시예가 채택하고 있는 센서 융합 학습 기술의 경우에는 토크나 외력 또는 카메라 감지 정보를 이용하여 작업 대상의 상태를 지속적으로 감지함으로써 그에 따라 적절한 제어를 수행하는 것이 가능하다. 앞서 설명한 인식 엔진에서 카메라 정보의 효율적 인식을 위해 GPSD 학습 엔진에서의 계층적 순환적 구조를 사용한 것과 유사하게, 토크나 외력 센서의 효율적 인식을 위해서도 계층적 순환적 구조가 사용될 수 있다. 이러한 인식 정보들은 GPSD 학습 엔진을 통해 융합되어 복잡하고 정교한 작업 기술 학습을 가능하게 한다.
나아가, 이상의 학습 로봇에서는 GPSD 학습 엔진을 통해 인공물 스스로 필요한 센서 정보를 선택할 수 있다. 이러한 학습 지능은 특히 GPSD 학습 엔진 중에서도 Gregorian 단계의 상위 지식들을 이용함으로써 구현 가능하다. 예를 들어, 요리사는 요리 중에 전화를 받을 수도 있다. 이러한 전화 통화라는 행위는 요리와는 상관없는 행위이고, 요리를 위해서는 불필요한 별개의 작업 기술이다. 인공물이 이러한 불필요한 행위, 혹은 센서 정보를 학습 과정에서 배제하기 위해서는 요리라는 개념과 연결된 관련 개념들이 무엇인지 파악하고, 연결되지 않은 행위나 센서 정보들에 대해서는 관심(attention) 대상으로부터 배제할 필요가 있다. 따라서, 본 발명의 실시예들이 채택하고 있는 GPSD 학습 엔진을 통해서 인공물은 현재 학습과 관련된 정보에 스스로 집중하여 효율적으로 학습을 할 수 있다.
이하에서는 본 발명의 실시예를 통해 실제 작업 기술 학습 과정이 어떻게 수행되는지에 대한 일례를 라면 요리를 통해 제시하고자 한다. 우선, 요리사는 인공물에게 라면을 끓이는 과정을 여러 차례　시연하였다고 가정하자. 통상적으로 이러한 시연 과정은 인공물의 로봇 암(robot arm)을 직접 잡고 학습 엔진에 입력시킴으로써 학습을 시킬 수 있다.
첫째, Darwinian 단계에서 학습 로봇은 부착된 센서(카메라, 토크/외력 센서 등이 될 수 있다.)로부터 미가공 패턴 정보들을 입력받는다. 이 때, 인식 엔진이나 기술 학습 엔진은 인식 또는 학습을 하지 않는다.
둘째, Skinnerian 단계에서 학습 로봇은 비로소 미가공 패턴 정보로부터 유의미한 패턴 정보를 추출한다. 이 때, 패턴들은 단순한 패턴(simple pattern)으로부터 복잡한(complex pattern)까지 계층 구조(hierarchy)를 형성하고, 각 레벨의 패턴들은 통상적인 클러스터링 기법이나 분류 기법을 통해 인식될 수 있다. 이러한 계층적 인식 과정은 순환적 구조를 형성하고 있으므로, 상위 계층의 복잡한 패턴을 인식한 후, 해당 정보가 다시 하위 계층의 단순한 패턴을 인식하는데 도움을 줄 수 있다. 인식되는 최상위의 복잡한 패턴들은 요리 재료(라면, 계란 및 파 등이 될 것이다.)와 작업 도구(냄비, 도마 및 젓가락 등이 될 것이다.), 그리고 토크/외력 센서로부터 인식될 수 있는 다양한 패턴들에 해당한다. 이 때, 기술 학습 엔진은 이러한 다양한 패턴 정보들과 수행된 동작(조인트 정보가 될 수 있다.)을 연결시켜 어떠한 센서 정보가 감지될 경우에 어떠한 동작을 수행해야 하는지를 학습한다. 이러한 다양한 패턴 정보들과 동작 정보의 연결은 다중 센서 통합 모듈(multisensory integration module)을 통해 구현될 수 있다. 라면을 끓이는 전 과정의 행동들은 기초 기술 단위로서 분할(segmentation)되고 기초 기술 라이브러리(basis skill library)와 같은 별도의 저장 공간에 저장될 수 있다.
셋째, Popperian 단계에서는 라면을 요리할 때 필요한 기초 기술들이 체인 형태의 연관 관계를 가지고 있다는 사실을 학습한다.
넷째, Gregorian 단계에서는 앞서 학습한 체인이라는 메타-패턴 정보와 기초 기술들의 시간적, 공간적 순서에 관한 정보를 이용하여 라면 요리에 대한 '기초 기술들'의 개념 계층 구조(concept hierarchy)를 생성한다. 또한, 앞서 생성한 분류 패턴, 메타-패턴 정보 및 라면 요리 과정에서의 인식 정보를 이용하여 라면 요리에 대한 '재료'의 개념 계층 구조 및 '도구'의 개념 계층 구조를 생성한다. 라면 요리를 포함한 다양한 요리에 대한 개념 계층 구조가 생성되면, 이후 다른 요리를 학습할 때, 요리와 관련이 적은 불필요한 동작이 감지되더라도, 학습 로봇은 이러한 불필요한 동작을 필터링하여 제거함으로써 요리에 필요한 동작 혹은 감지 정보에만 집중할 수 있다.
상기된 본 발명의 실시예들에 따르면, 계층적으로 연결된 복수 개의 분류 체계를 이용하여 미가공 정보로부터 복수 개의 작업 기술을 추출하고 조직화함으로써 이미 학습된 작업 기술을 재사용할 수 있고, 학습 로봇 스스로가 이미 학습된 작업 기술을 향상시키고 추가할 수 있을 뿐만 아니라, 주위 환경 내에 복수 개의 작업 객체가 존재하는 경우에도 이미 학습된 작업 기술 그룹을 참조하여 현재의 작업 기술과 연관된 정보만을 실시간으로 필터링함으로써 수행하여야 하는 작업을 정확하게 인식할 수 있다.
따라서, 구현 및 활용의 측면에서 요리 보조 로봇의 경우에는 가정 주부가 라면이나 스파게티 등의 요리를 할 때, 재료를 손질(양파, 파 등을 썰기)하고 면을 물에 넣어 끓이고, 스프나 소스를 면과 섞는 등의 작업을 도와줄 수 있다. 한편, 의료 활동 보조 로봇의 경우에는 간호사를 도와 환자의 기본적 건강상태를 점검(체온 또는 맥박 측정)하고, 재활 치료를 할 때 환자를 부축하는 등의 행위를 수행함으로써 재활 치료사를 도와줄 수 있다.
한편, 본 발명은 컴퓨터로 읽을 수 있는 기록 매체에 컴퓨터가 읽을 수 있는 코드로 구현하는 것이 가능하다. 이 때, 컴퓨터가 읽을 수 있는 기록 매체는 컴퓨터 시스템에 의하여 읽혀질 수 있는 데이터가 저장되는 모든 종류의 기록 장치를 포함한다. 컴퓨터가 읽을 수 있는 기록 매체의 예로는 ROM, RAM, CD-ROM, 자기 테이프, 플로피디스크, 광 데이터 저장장치 등이 있으며, 또한 캐리어 웨이브(예를 들어 인터넷을 통한 전송)의 형태로 구현하는 것을 포함한다. 또한, 컴퓨터가 읽을 수 있는 기록 매체는 네트워크로 연결된 컴퓨터 시스템에 분산되어, 분산 방식으로 컴퓨터가 읽을 수 있는 코드가 저장되고 실행될 수 있다. 그리고 본 발명을 구현하기 위한 기능적인(functional) 프로그램, 코드 및 코드 세그먼트들은 본 발명이 속하는 기술 분야의 프로그래머들에 의하여 용이하게 추론될 수 있다.
이상에서 본 발명에 대하여 그 다양한 실시예들을 중심으로 살펴보았다. 본 발명에 속하는 기술 분야에서 통상의 지식을 가진 자는 본 발명이 본 발명의 본질적인 특성에서 벗어나지 않는 범위에서 변형된 형태로 구현될 수 있음을 이해할 수 있을 것이다. 그러므로 개시된 실시예들은 한정적인 관점이 아니라 설명적인 관점에서 고려되어야 한다. 본 발명의 범위는 전술한 설명이 아니라 특허청구범위에 나타나 있으며, 그와 동등한 범위 내에 있는 모든 차이점은 본 발명에 포함된 것으로 해석되어야 할 것이다.
500 : 작업 기술을 학습하는 로봇
10 : 센서 20 : 학습 엔진
30 : 구동부
50 : 주위 환경 70 : 작업 객체
Claims (8)
Hide Dependent 
적어도 하나 이상의 프로세서(processor)를 구비한 학습 엔진(learning engine)이 작업 기술을 학습하는 방법에 있어서,
상기 학습 엔진에 의해 제어 가능한 메소드(method) 및 상기 메소드에 따라 주위 환경으로부터 감지된 미가공 정보(raw data)를 입력받는 단계;
계층적으로 연결된 복수 개의 분류 체계를 이용하여 상기 입력된 메소드 및 미가공 정보로부터 복수 개의 동작 패턴들을 추출하는 단계; 및
상기 추출된 동작 패턴들 간의 연관 관계에 따라 작업 기술 그룹을 생성하는 단계를 포함하는 방법.
제 1 항에 있어서,
상기 복수 개의 동작 패턴들을 추출하는 단계는,
미리 저장된 복수 개의 분류 체계 중 어느 하나에 따른 하위 계층 분류기를 이용하여 상기 입력된 메소드 및 미가공 정보로부터 동작 패턴을 추출하는 단계; 및
상기 분류 체계 내의 계층적 연결 관계에 따라 상기 하위 계층 분류기에 연결된 상위 계층 분류기를 이용하여 상기 추출된 동작 패턴으로부터 또 다른 동작 패턴을 추출하는 과정을 소정 회수만큼 반복하는 단계를 포함하는 방법.
제 2 항에 있어서,
상기 상위 계층 분류기를 통해 추출된 동작 패턴을 상기 복수 개의 분류 체계 중 어느 하나에 따른 하위 계층 분류기의 입력값으로 순환적 피드백(recurrent feedback)하는 것을 특징으로 하는 방법.
제 1 항에 있어서,
상기 입력된 미가공 정보 중, 현재의 작업 기술과 연관된 정보만을 실시간으로 필터링(filtering)하는 단계를 더 포함하는 방법.
제 4 항에 있어서,
상기 현재의 작업 기술과 연관된 정보만을 필터링하는 단계는,
상기 미가공 정보를 입력받는 중, 입력되는 미가공 정보 및 이미 생성된 작업 기술 그룹을 참조하여 현재의 작업 기술을 실시간으로 판단하는 단계;
상기 판단 결과에 따라, 상기 입력되는 미가공 정보에 대해 상기 판단된 현재의 작업 기술과의 연관도를 산출하는 단계; 및
상기 동작 패턴들을 추출하는 단계 이전에 상기 입력된 미가공 정보 중에서 상기 산출된 연관도가 낮은 정보를 삭제하는 단계를 포함하는 방법.
작업 기술을 학습하는 로봇에 있어서,
미리 정의된 메소드에 따라 주위 환경을 감지하는 적어도 하나 이상의 센서;
적어도 하나 이상의 프로세서를 구비하고, 상기 메소드를 제어하여 상기 센서로부터 미가공 정보를 입력받고, 계층적으로 연결된 복수 개의 분류 체계를 이용하여 상기 메소드 및 상기 입력된 미가공 정보로부터 복수 개의 동작 패턴들을 추출하며, 상기 추출된 동작 패턴들 간의 연관 관계에 따라 작업 기술 그룹을 생성하는 학습 엔진; 및
상기 학습 엔진이 생성한 작업 기술 그룹을 참조하여 상기 센서를 통해 감지된 미가공 정보에 대응하는 작업 기술을 수행하는 구동부를 포함하는 로봇.
제 6 항에 있어서,
상기 학습 엔진은, 상기 입력된 미가공 정보 중, 현재의 작업 기술과 연관된 정보만을 실시간으로 필터링하는 것을 특징으로 하는 로봇.
제 6 항에 있어서,
상기 작업 기술 그룹은 시간적 순서 및 공간적 배치에 따라 분류된 단위 동작을 하나 또는 둘 이상 조합하여 저장하는 것을 특징으로 하는 로봇.

WO2023192497A1：

Description
NATURAL LANGUAGE CONTROL OF A ROBOT
Background
[0001] Many robots are programmed to perform certain tasks. For example, a robot on an assembly line can be programmed to recognize certain objects, and perform particular manipulations to those certain objects.
[0002] Further, some robots can perform certain tasks in response to explicit user interface input that corresponds to the certain task. For example, a vacuuming robot can perform a general vacuuming task in response to a spoken utterance of "robot, clean". However, typically, user interface inputs that cause a robot to perform a certain task must be mapped explicitly to the task. Accordingly, a robot can be unable to perform certain tasks in response to various free-form natural language inputs of a user attempting to control the robot.
Summary
[0003] Language models (LMs) have been developed that can be used to process natural language (NL) content and/or other input(s), to generate LM output that that reflects NL content and/or other content that is responsive to the input(s). For example, large language models (LLMs) have been developed that are trained on massive amounts of data and are able to be utilized to robustly process a wide range of NL inputs and generate corresponding LM output that reflects corresponding NL content that is accurate and responsive to the NL input. An LLM can include at least hundreds of millions of parameters and can often include at least billions of parameters, such as one hundred billion or more parameters. An LLM can, for example, be a sequence-to-sequence model, Transformer-based, and/or include an encoder and/or a decoder. One non-limiting example of an LLM is GOOGLE'S Pathways Language Model (PaLM). Another non-limiting example of an LLM is GOOGLE'S Language Model for Dialogue Applications (LaMDA).
[0004] Separately, efforts have been made in attempting to enable robust free-form (FF) NL control of robot. For example, to enable a robot to react appropriately in response to any one of a variety of different typed or spoken instructions from a human that are directed to the robot. For instance, in response to a FF NL instruction of "put the blocks in the toy bin", to be able to perform a robotic task that includes (a) navigating to the "blocks", (b) picking up the "blocks", (c) navigating to the "toy bin", and (d) placing the "blocks" in the "toy bin".
[0005] Implementations disclosed herein recognize that LMs, such as LLMs, can encode a wealth of semantic knowledge about the world, and that such knowledge can be useful to robots in acting upon high-level, temporally extended instructions expressed in a FF NL instruction. Implementations disclosed herein further recognize that a drawback of LLMs is that they lack real-world experience, such as real-world experience in robotic control, and/or that they lack any grounding to current real-world condition(s). For example, prompting an LLM with "I spilled my drink on the table, can you help" can result in generation of LLM output that reflects NL content that is descriptive of reasonable step(s) for cleaning a spill. For instance, the highest probability decoding of the LLM output can reflect NL content of "you could try using a vacuum". However, "you could try using a vacuum" may not be applicable to a particular agent, such as a robot, that needs to perform this task in a particular environment. For example, the robot may not have an integrated vacuum and may not have access to any separate vacuum in the particular environment, or may be incapable of controlling a separate vacuum in the particular environment.
[0006] Implementations disclosed herein leverage LM output in determining how to control a robot to perform a task in response to a FF NL input that: describes the task at a high-level; and fails to describe all (or even any) of the robotic ski II (s) that are needed to perform the task. However, in view of recognized drawback(s) of LMs, implementations described herein utilize one or more techniques to ground the LM output so that robotic skill(s), that are selected based on the LM output for performance in response to the FF NL input, are robotic skill(s) that are both feasible (e.g., performable by the robot) and contextually appropriate (e.g., likely to succeed if performed by the robot in the particular environment). More particularly, implementations ground the LM output through consideration of not only the LM output, but also of robotic skills that are performable by a robot, such as pre-trained robotic skills.
[0007] As a non-limiting working example of some of those implementations, assume that a user provides an FF NL instruction of "I spilled my drink on the table, can you help". An LLM prompt can be generated based on the FF NL instruction. For example, the LLM prompt can strictly conform to the FF NL instruction. As another example, and as described herein, the LLM prompt can be based on, but not strictly conform to, the FF NL instruction. For instance, the prompt can include some or all of the terms of the FF NL instruction, but can additionally include: scene descriptor(s) of the current environment (e.g., NL descriptor(s) of object(s) detected in the environment); an explanation generated in a prior pass utilizing the LLM (e.g., based on a prior LLM prompt of "explain how you would help when a user says 'I spilled my drink on the table, can you help'"); and/or term(s) to encourage prediction of step(s) by the LLM (e.g., including, at the end of the prompt "I would 1.").
[0008] The generated LLM prompt can be processed, using the LLM, to generate LLM output that models a probability distribution, over candidate word compositions, that is dependent on the instruction. Continuing with the working example, the highest probability decoding of the LLM output can be, for example, "use a vacuum". However, implementations disclosed herein do not simply blindly utilize the probability distribution of the LLM output in determining how to control a robot. Rather, implementations leverage the probability distribution of the LLM output, while also considering robotic skills that are actually performable by the robot, such as tens of, hundreds of, or thousands of pre-trained robotic skills. Some versions of those implementations generate, for each of the considered robotic skills, a corresponding taskgrounding measure and a corresponding world-grounding measure. Further, some of those versions select a particular robotic skill, for implementation in response to the FF NL prompt, based on considering both the corresponding task-grounding measures and the corresponding world-grounding measures. For instance, a corresponding overall measure can be generated for each of the robotic skills as a function of the corresponding world-grounding and taskgrounding measures for the robotic skill, and the particular robotic skill can be selected based on it having the best corresponding overall measure.
[0009] In generating a task-grounding measure for a robotic skill, an NL skill description of the robotic skill can be compared to the LLM output to generate the task-grounding measure. For example, the task-grounding measure can reflect the probability of the NL skill description in the probability distribution that is modeled by the LLM output. For instance, and continuing with the working example, the task-grounding measure for a first robotic skill having an NL skill description of "pick up a sponge" can reflect a higher probability than does the task-grounding measure for a second robotic skill having an NL skill description of "pick up a banana". Put another way, the probability distribution of the LLM output can characterize a higher probability for "pick up a sponge" than for "pick up a banana". Also, for instance, and continuing with the working example, the task-grounding measure for a third robotic skill having an NL skill description of "pick up a squeegee" can reflect a probability that is similar to that of the first robotic skill.
[0010] In generating a world-grounding measure for a robotic skill, current state data can optionally be considered, such as environmental state data and/or robot state data. Environmental state data reflects the state of one or more object(s) that are in the environment and that are in addition to the robot and can include, for example, vision sensor data and/or determinations made from processing the vision sensor data (e.g., object detection(s) and/or classification (s)). Robot state data reflects the state of one or more components of the robot and can include, for example, the current position of component(s) of the robot, a current velocity of component(s) of the robot, and/or other state data.
[0011] In some implementations or for some robotic skills, the description of the robotic skill can also be considered. In some of those implementations, the description of the robotic skill (e.g., a word embedding thereof) is processed and current state data is processed, using a trained value function model, to generate a value that reflects a probability of the robotic skill being successful based on the current state data - and the world-grounding measure is generated based on the value (e.g., conforms to the value). In some versions of those implementations, a candidate robotic action is also processed using the trained value function model and along with the description and the current state data. In some of those versions, multiple values are generated for a given robotic skill, where each is generated based on processing a different candidate robotic action, but utilizing the same description and the same current state data. In those versions, the world-grounding measure can be generated based on, for example, the generated value that reflects the highest probability of success.
[0012] Continuing with the working example, assume that current environmental state data includes an image, captured by a camera of the robot, and that the image captures a nearby sponge and a nearby banana, but does not capture any squeegee. In such a situation, the world-grounding measure for the first robotic skill having an NL skill description of "pick up a sponge" can reflect a high probability, the world-grounding measure for the second robotic skill having an NL skill description of "pick up a banana" can also reflect a high probability, and the world-grounding measure for the third robotic skill having an NL description of "pick up a squeegee" can reflect a low probability.
[0013] Continuing with the working example, the first robotic skill having an NL skill description of "pick up a sponge" can be selected for implementation based on considering both its taskgrounding measure and its world-grounding measure, both of which reflect high probabilities. It is noted that, despite having a high world-grounding measure, the second robotic skill is not selected due to it having a low task-grounding measure. Likewise, despite having a high taskgrounding measure, the third robotic skill is not selected due to it having a low worldgrounding measure.
[0014] In these and other manners, implementations disclosed herein can consider both taskgrounding measures and world-grounding measures in selecting a robotic skill to implement. This ensures that the selected robotic skill is both (a) likely to lead to successful completion of the task reflected by the FF NL input (as reflected by the task-grounding measure) and (b) likely to be successful if implemented by a robot in the current environment (as reflected by the world-grounding measure).
[0015] The above description is provided as an overview of only some implementations disclosed herein. These and other implementations are described in more detail herein, including in the detailed description and the claims.
[0016] It should be appreciated that all combinations of the foregoing concepts and additional concepts described in greater detail herein are contemplated as being part of the subject matter disclosed herein. For example, all combinations of claimed subject matter appearing at the end of this disclosure are contemplated as being part of the subject matter disclosed herein. Brief Description of the Drawings
[0017] FIG. 1A illustrates an example of a human providing a free-form (FF) natural language (NL) instruction to an example robot.
[0018] FIG. IB illustrates a simplified birds-eye view of an example environment in which the human and the robot of FIG. 1A are located, and illustrates an example current vision data instance that can be captured in the environment.
[0019] FIG. 2A illustrates a process flow of how various example components can interact in selecting an initial robotic skill to implement responsive to the FF NL instruction of FIG. 1A and in the environment of FIG. IB.
[0020] FIG. 2B illustrates a process flow of how various example components can interact in selecting a next robotic skill to implement, following (or during) implementation of the robotic skill selected in FIG. 2A, and responsive to the FF NL instruction of FIG. 1A and in the environment of FIG. IB.
[0021] FIG. 3 is a flowchart illustrating an example method of leveraging an LLM in implementing robotic skill(s) to perform a task reflected in a FF NL instruction, according to implementations disclosed herein.
[0022] FIG. 4 is a flowchart illustrating an example method of generating a world-grounding measure for a robotic skill based on processing current state data and a skill description for the robotic skill.
[0023] FIG. 5 schematically depicts an example architecture of a robot.
[0024] FIG. 6 schematically depicts an example architecture of a computer system.
Detailed Description
[0025] Prior to turning to a detailed description of the drawings, a non-limiting overview of various implementations is provided.
[0026] In various implementations disclosed herein, a robot is equipped with a repertoire of learned robotic skills for atomic behaviors that are capable of low-level visuomotor control. Some of those implementations, instead of only prompting an LLM to simply interpret an FF NL high-level instruction, utilize the LLM output generated by the prompting to generate task- grounding measures that each quantify the likelihood that a corresponding robotic skill makes progress towards completing the high-level instruction. Further, a corresponding affordance function (e.g., a learned value function) for each of the robotic skills can be utilized to generate a world-grounding measure, for the robotic skill, that that quantifies how likely it is to succeed from the current stat. Yet further, both the task-grounding measures and the world-grounding measures can be utilized in determining which robotic skill to implement next in achieving the task(s) reflected by the high-level instruction. In these and other manners, implementations leverage that the LLM output describes the probability that each skill contributes to completing the instruction, and the affordance function describes the probability that each skill will succeed - and combining the two provides the probability that each skill will perform the instruction successfully. The affordance functions enable real-world grounding to be considered in addition to the task-grounding of the LLM output, and constraining the completions to the skill descriptions enables the LLM output to be considered in a manner that is aware of the robot's capabilities (e.g., in view of its repertoire of learned robotic skills). Furthermore, this combination results in a fully explainable sequence of steps that the robot will execute to accomplish a high-level instruction (e.g., the descriptions of the robotic skill(s) selected for implementation) - an interpretable plan that is expressed through language.
[0027] Accordingly, implementations leverage an LLM to provide task-grounding to determine useful actions for a high-level goal and leverage affordance functions (e.g., learned function(s)) to provide world-grounding to determine what action(s) are actually possible to execute in achieving the high-level goal. Some of those implementations utilize reinforcement learning (RL) as a way to learn language-conditioned value functions that provide affordances of what is possible in the real world.
[0028] Language models seek to model the probability
Figure imgf000009_0001
a sequence of strings w. This is generally done through factorizing the
Figure imgf000009_0002
probability via the chain rule to be such that each successive string
Figure imgf000009_0003
is predicted from the previous. Recent breakthroughs initiated by neural network-based Attention architectures have enabled efficient scaling of so-called LLMs. Such LLMs include Transformers, LAMDA, PaLM, and others, each showing increasingly large capacity (billions of parameters and terabytes of text) and subsequent ability to generalize across tasks.
[0029] Implementations disclosed herein utilize the vast semantic knowledge contained in LLMs to determine useful tasks for solving high-level instructions. Some of those implementations further seek to accurately predict whether a skill (given by a NL descriptor) is feasible at a current state of an environment of a robot or other agent. In some versions of those implementations, or for at least some skill(s), temporal-difference-based (TD) reinforcement learning is utilized to accomplish this goal. In some of those versions, a Markov decision process is defined as (
Figure imgf000010_0002
), where £ and Jl are state and action spaces is a state-transition probability function, s a reward
Figure imgf000010_0004
Figure imgf000010_0003
function and y is a discount factor. The goal of TD methods is to learn state or state-action value functions (Q-function)
Figure imgf000010_0006
which represents the discounted sum of rewards when starting from state s and action a, followed by the actions produced by the policy n, i.e. The Q-function, Qn(s, a) can be learned via approximate
Figure imgf000010_0005
dynamic programming approaches that optimize the following loss: LTD(fT) =
Figure imgf000010_0001
the dataset of states and actions and 6 are the parameters of the Q-function.
[0030] For example, TD-based methods can be used to learn a value function, such as a value function that is additionally conditioned on the natural language descriptor of a skill, and utilize the value function to determine whether a given skill is feasible from the given state. It is worth noting that in the undiscounted, sparse reward case, where the agent receives the reward of 1.0 at the end of the episode if it was successful and 0.0 otherwise, the value function trained via RL corresponds to an affordance function that specifies whether a skill is possible in a given state.
[0031] Various implementations disclosed herein receive a user-provided natural language instruction / that describes a task that the robot should execute. The instruction can be long, abstract, and/or ambiguous. Further, implementations have access to a set of robotic skills II, where each skill n G II performs a short task, such as picking up a particular object, and comes with a short language description ^(e.g., "find a sponge") and an affordance function
Figure imgf000011_0001
which indicates the probability of completing the skill with description successfully from state s. Intuitively, means "if I ask the robot to do Figure imgf000011_0002 will it do
Figure imgf000011_0005
it?". In RL terminology s the value function for the skill if the reward is 1 for
Figure imgf000011_0006
successful completion and 0 otherwise.
[0032] As mentioned above, Figure imgf000011_0003 denotes the textual label of skill n and p(cn.|s/n.) denotes the probability that skill n with textual label Figure imgf000011_0004 successfully completes if executed from state s, where is a Bernoulli random variable. Processing a prompt, that is based on the natural language instruction /, using an LLM, generates LLM output that characterizes p(£n\i), the probability that a skill's textual label is a valid next step for the user's instruction. However, implementations disclosed herein recognize that it is important to consider the probability that a given skill successfully makes progress toward actually completing the instruction, which is denoted as
Figure imgf000011_0007
Assuming that a skill that succeeds makes progress on / with probability its probability of being the right skill), and a skill that fails makes
Figure imgf000011_0008
progress with probability zero, this can be factorized as
Figure imgf000011_0009
which is sometimes be referred to herein as task-grounding or a task-grounding measure. Further, the probability of the skill being possible in the current state of the world can be factorized which is sometimes referred to herein as world-grounding or a world
Figure imgf000011_0010
grounding measure.
[0033] While LLMs can draw on a wealth of knowledge learned from copious amounts of text, they will not necessarily break down high-level commands into low-level instructions that are suitable for robotic execution. For example, if an LLM were asked "how would a robot bring me an apple", it may respond "a robot could go to a nearby store and purchase an apple for you". Though this response is a reasonable completion for the prompt, it is not necessarily actionable to an embodied agent, such as a robot, which may have a narrow and fixed set of abilities. Therefore, to adapt LLMs or other LMs, some implementations seek to implicitly inform LMs that the high-level instruction should be broken down into sequences of available low-level skills. One approach for accomplishing this is careful prompt engineering, a technique to coax an LM to a specific response structure. Prompt engineering provides examples in the context text ("prompt") for the LM that specify the task and the response structure which the LM will emulate.
[0034] Scoring language models open an avenue to constrained responses by outputting the probabilities assigned by a LM to fixed outputs. An LM represents a distribution over potential completions
Figure imgf000012_0001
is a word that appears at a kth position in a text. While typical generation applications (e.g., conversational agents) sample from this distribution or decode the maximum likelihood completion, implementations disclosed herein can instead use the distribution to score a candidate completion selected from a set of options (e.g., a candidate skill description from a set of candidate skill descriptions). More formally, given a set of low-level robotic skills II, their language descriptions Figure imgf000012_0002 and an instruction /, the probability of a language description of a skill
Figure imgf000012_0003
making progress towards executing the instruction can be computed, which corresponds to querying the model over potential completions. The optimal skill according to the language model is computed via Figure imgf000012_0004 =
Figure imgf000012_0005
[0035] In some implementations, the process proceeds by iteratively selecting a skill and appending it to the instruction. Practically, this can be viewed as a dialog between a user and a robot, in which a user provides the high level-instruction (e.g., "How would you bring me a coke can?") and the language model responds with an explicit sequence ("I would: 1. ,", e.g., "I would: 1. find a coke can, 2. pick up the coke can, 3. bring it to you"). This has the added benefit of interpretability, as generative responses are generated, along with a notion of likelihood across many possible responses.
[0036] While such an approach enables effectively extracting knowledge from the language model, it leaves a major issue. Namely, while the decoding of the instruction obtained in this way always consists of skills that are available to the robot, these skills may not necessarily be appropriate for executing the desired high-level task in the specific situation that the robot is currently in. For example, if an FF NL prompt is "bring me an apple", the optimal set of skills changes if there is no apple in view of the robot or if the robot already has one in its gripper. [0037] Accordingly, implementations seek to ground large language models through value functions - affordance functions that capture the log likelihood that a particular skill will be able to succeed in the current state. Given a skill TI G II, its language description Figure imgf000013_0001 and its corresponding value function, which provides
Figure imgf000013_0007
, the probability of completion for the skill described by Figure imgf000013_0002 in state s, an affordance space
Figure imgf000013_0006
11 can be formed. This value function space captures affordances across all skills. For each skill, the affordance function and the LLM probability can be multiplied together and ultimately the most probable skill selected
Figure imgf000013_0005
[0038] Once the most probable skill is selected, the corresponding policy is executed by the agent and the LLM query is amended to include Figure imgf000013_0003 (the language description of the selected skill), and the process is run again until a termination token (e.g., "done") is chosen. This process is described in Algorithm 1, provided below. These two mirrored processes together lead to a probabilistic interpretation, where the LLM provides probabilities of a skill being useful for the high-level instruction and the affordances provide probabilities of successfully executing each skill. Combining these two probabilities together provides a probability that this skill furthers the execution of the high-level instruction commanded by the user.
Algorithm 1
Given: A high level instruction i, state s0, and a set of skills II and their language descriptions
Figure imgf000013_0004
Figure imgf000014_0001
13: end while
[0039] Implementations disclosed herein utilize a set of skills, each of which has a policy (for use in implementing the skill by the agent), a value function, and a short language description (e.g., "pick up the can"). These skills, value functions, and descriptions can be obtained in a variety of different ways. As one example, the individual skills can be trained with image-based behavioral cloning (e.g., following the BC-Z method) or reinforcement learning (e.g., following MT-Opt). Regardless of how a skill's policy is obtained, a value function can be utilized for the skill, such as value functions trained via TD backups. In order to amortize the cost of training many skills, multi-task BC and/or multi-task RL can be utilized for one or more skills. With multi-task BC and/or multi-task RL, instead of training a separate policy and value function per skill, multi-task policies and models are trained that are conditioned on the NL skill description. Note, however, that this description only corresponds to low level skills - it is still the LLM that is utilized to interpret the high-level instruction and break it up into individual low level skill descriptions.
[0040] In some implementations, to condition policies on language, a pre-trained large sentence encoder language model can be utilized. The sentence encoder language model parameters can be frozen during training and the embeddings, that are generated by passing in text descriptions of each skill, can be the embeddings used in conditioning the policies. The text embeddings are used as the input to the policy and value function that specify which skill should be performed. Since the language model used to generate the text embeddings is not necessarily the same as the language model used for planning, implementations are able to utilize different language models well suited for different abstraction levels - understanding planning with respect to many skills as opposed to expressing specific skills more granularly. [0041] In some implementations, BC and/or RL policy training procedures can be used to obtain one or more of the language-conditioned policies and one or more of the value functions, respectively. As mentioned previously, for skill specification a set of short, natural language descriptions that are represented as language model embeddings can be utilized. Further, sparse reward functions can be utilized, such as ones with reward values of 1.0 at the end of an episode if the language command was executed successfully, and 0.0 otherwise. The success of language command execution can be, for example, rated by humans where the raters are given a video of the robot performing the skill, together with the given instruction. If two out of the three (or other threshold value) of raters agree that the skill was accomplished successfully, the episode is labelled with a positive reward. The action space of the policies can include, as one example and for a robot similar to that illustrated in FIG. 1A, six degrees of freedom of an end-effector pose as well as gripper open and close commands, x-y position and yaw orientation delta of the mobile base of the robot, and the terminate action.
[0042] Various robotic skills can be utilized in implementations disclosed herein, such as manipulation and navigation skills using a mobile manipulator robot. Such skills can include picking, placing and rearranging objects, opening and closing drawers, navigating to various locations, and placing objects in a specific configuration.
[0043] RL models utilized in some implementations, such as RL policy models and/or RL value function models, can use an architecture similar to MT-Opt, optionally with slight changes to support natural language inputs. As one particular example, a camera image (e.g., from a camera of a robot) can be processed by convolutional layers of an image tower of the architecture to generate an image embedding. The skill description can be embedded by the LLM (or other embedding model), then concatenated with the robot action and non-image parts of the state, such as the gripper height. To support asynchronous control, inference can optionally occur while the robot is still moving from the previous action. The model is optionally given how much of the previous action is left to execute. The conditioning input goes through a fully connected layer of an additional tower of the architecture, then is tiled spatially to generate an additional embedding, which is added/concatenated to the image embedding, before going through additional convolutional layers. The output is gated through a sigmoid, so the Q-value is always in [0, 1],
[0044] BC models utilized in some implementations, such as BC policy models, can use an architecture similar to BC-Z. As one particular example, the skill description can be embedded by a universal sentence encoder, then used to FiLM condition a Resnet-18 based architecture. Unlike the RL model, the previous action or gripper height may not be provided. Multiple FC layers can be applied to the final visual features, to output each action component (arm position, arm orientation, gripper, and the termination action).
[0045] It is noted that the flexibility of implementations disclosed herein, allows mixing and matching of policies and affordances from different methods. For example: for pick manipulation skills a single multi-task, language-conditioned policy can be used; for place manipulation skills a scripted policy, with an affordance based on the gripper state, can be used; and for navigation policies a planning-based approach, which is aware of the location(s) where specific object(s) can be found and corresponding distance measure(s), can be used. In some implementations, in order to avoid a situation where a skill is chosen but has already been performed or will have no effect, a cap for the affordances can be set indicating that the skill has been completed and the reward received.
[0046] As noted above, implementations disclosed herein enable utilization of many different policies and/or affordance functions through its probability interface. Accordingly, as skills become performant or as new skills are learned, it is straightforward to incorporate such skills into implementations disclosed herein.
[0047] As described above, implementations utilize an affordance function which
Figure imgf000016_0002
indicates the probability of completing the skill with description
Figure imgf000016_0007
successfully from state s. Some learned policies that can be utilized herein produce a Q-function, Given
Figure imgf000016_0006
with action a and state s, value
Figure imgf000016_0003
s found through optimization
Figure imgf000016_0004
via the cross entropy method, similar to MT-Opt. For brevity, some example value functions are referenced below by their skill-text description Figure imgf000016_0001 and the affordance function as |n some implementations, due to artifacts of training, the value functions require
Figure imgf000016_0005
calibration to be directly applied as a probability. The parameters used for calibration can be determined, for example, empirically. Furthermore, and as referenced above, logic can be enforced that if a skill that has already been completed and the reward received (e.g., navigating to the table the robot is already in front of) then it should not be performed.
[0048] An example affordance function for "pick" skills follows. The trained value functions for pick skills generally have a minimum value for when a skill is not possible and a maximum when the skill is successful and thus we normalize the value function to get a affordance function with
Figure imgf000017_0001
[0049] An example affordance function for "go to" / "navigate" skills follows. The affordance function of go to skills are based on the distance d (in meters) to the location.
Figure imgf000017_0002
Figure imgf000017_0003
[0050] An example affordance function for a terminate skill can be to always set it to a small value, such as 0.1, represented by This can ensure the planning process
Figure imgf000017_0004
terminates when there is no feasible skill to choose from.
[0051] Turning now to the Figures, FIG. 1A illustrates an example of a human 101 providing a free-form (FF) natural language (NL) instruction 105 of "bring me a snack from the table" to an example robot 110.
[0052] The robot 110 illustrated in FIG. 1A is a particular mobile robot. However, additional and/or alternative robots can be utilized with techniques disclosed herein, such as additional robots that vary in one or more respects from robot 110 illustrated in FIG. 1A. For example, a mobile forklift robot, an unmanned aerial vehicle ("UAV"), a non-mobile robot, and/or a humanoid robot can be utilized instead of or in addition to robot 110, in techniques described herein.
[0053] Robot 110 includes a base 113 with wheels provided on opposed sides thereof for locomotion of the robot 110. The base 113 may include, for example, one or more motors for driving the wheels of the robot 110 to achieve a desired direction, velocity, and/or acceleration of movement for the robot 110. The robot 110 also includes robot arm 114 with an end effector 115 that takes the form of a gripper with two opposing "fingers" or "digits."
[0054] Robot 110 also includes a vision component 111 that can generate vision data (e.g., images) related to shape, color, depth, and/or other features of object(s) that are in the line of sight of the vision component 111. The vision component 111 can be, for example, a monocular camera, a stereographic camera (active or passive), and/or a 3D laser scanner. [0055] A 3D laser scanner can include one or more lasers that emit light and one or more sensors that collect data related to reflections of the emitted light. The 3D laser scanner can generate vision component data that is a 3D point cloud with each of the points of the 3D point cloud defining a position of a point of a surface in 3D space. A monocular camera can include a single sensor (e.g., a charge-coupled device (CCD)), and generate, based on physical properties sensed by the sensor, images that each includes a plurality of data points defining color values and/or grayscale values. For instance, the monocular camera can generate images that include red, blue, and/or green channels. Each channel can define a value for each of a plurality of pixels of the image such as a value from 0 to 255 for each of the pixels of the image. A stereographic camera can include two or more sensors, each at a different vantage point. In some of those implementations, the stereographic camera generates, based on characteristics sensed by the two sensors, images that each includes a plurality of data points defining depth values and color values and/or grayscale values. For example, the stereographic camera can generate images that include a depth channel and red, blue, and/or green channels.
[0056] Robot 110 also includes one or more processors that, for example: process, using an LLM, an LLM prompt that is based on the FF NL input 105 to generate LLM output; determine, based on the LLM output, descriptions of robotic skills, and value function(s) for robotic skills, robotic ski 11 (s) to implement in performing the robotic task; control the robot 110, during performance of the robotic task, based on the determined robotic ski 11 (s); etc. For example, one or more processors of robot 110 can implement all or aspects of method 300 and/or 400 described herein. Additional description of some examples of the structure and functionality of various robots is provided herein.
[0057] Turning now to FIG. IB, a simplified birds-eye view of an example environment, in which the human 101 and the robot 110 of FIG. 1A are located, is illustrated. The human 101 and the robot 110 are represented as circles in FIG. IB. Further, environmental features 191, 192, 193, and 194 are illustrated in FIG. IB. The environmental features 191, 192, 193, and 194 illustrate outlines of various landmarks the environment. For example, the environment could be an office kitchen or a work kitchen, and features 191 and 192 can be countertops, feature 193 can be a sink, and feature 194 can be a round table. [0058] Also illustrated in FIG. IB is an example current vision data instance 180 that can be captured in the environment and utilized, for example, in generating a world-grounding measure for a robotic skill. For example, robot 110 can capture the current vision data instance 180, using vision component 111. The vision data instance 180 captures a pear 184A and keys 184B that are both present on the round table represented by feature 194. It is noted that, in the birds-eye view, the pear and the keys are illustrated as dots for the sake of simplicity.
[0059] Turning now to FIG. 2A, a process flow of how various example components can interact in selecting an initial robotic skill to implement responsive to the FF NL instruction 150 of FIG. 1A and in the environment of FIG. IB. The example components, illustrated in FIG. 2A, include an LLM engine 130, an LLM 150, a task-grounding engine 132, a world-grounding engine 134, value function model(s), a selection engine 130, and an implementation engine 136. One or more of the illustrated components can be implemented by the robot 110 (e.g., utilizing processor(s) and/or memory thereof) and/or utilizing remote computing device(s) (e.g., cloud-based server(s)) that are in network communication with the robot 110.
[0060] In FIG. 2A, the LLM engine 130 generates an LLM prompt 205A based on the FF NL input 105 ("bring me a snack from the table"). The LLM engine 130 can generate the LLM prompt 205A such that it conforms strictly to the FF NL input 105 or can generate the LLM prompt 205A such that it is based on, but does not strictly conform to, the FF NL input 105. For example, as illustrated by LLM prompt 205A1, a non-limiting example of LLM prompt 205A, the LLM prompt can be "How would you bring me a snack from the table? I would 1.". Such LLM prompt 205A1 includes "How would you" as a prefix and "I would 1." as a suffix, either or both of which can encourage prediction, in LLM output, of step(s) that are relevant to achieving the high-level task specified by the FF NL input 105.
[0061] In some implementations, the LLM engine 130 can optionally generate the LLM prompt 205A further based on one or more of scene descriptor(s) 202A of a current environment of the robot 110, prompt example(s) 203A, and/or an explanation 204A.
[0062] The scene descriptor(s) 202A can include NL descriptor(s) of object(s) currently or recently detected in the environment with the robot 110, such as descriptor(s) of object(s) determined based on processing image(s) or other vision data using object detection and classification machine learning model(s). For example, the scene descriptor(s) 202A can include "pear", "keys", "human", "table", "sink", and "countertops" and the LLM engine 130 can generate the LLM prompt 205A to incorporate one or more of such descriptors. For instance, the LLM prompt 205A can be "A pear, keys, a human, a table, a sink, and countertops are nearby. How would you bring the human a snack from the table. I would 1.".
[0063] The prompt example(s) 203A can include optionally manually engineered example(s) of desired output style(s). For example, they can include "in a step-by-step format" or "in a numbered list format" or "in the style of 1. first step, 2. second step, 3. third step, etc.". The prompt example(s) 203A can be prepended or otherwise incorporated into the LLM prompt 205A to encourage prediction, in LLM output, of content that is in the output style(s). The explanation 204A can be an explanation generated based on processing a prior LLM prompt, also based on the FF NL input, in a prior pass and utilizing the LLM 150. For example, the prior LLM prompt could be "explain how you would bring me a snack from the table", and the explanation 204A can be generated based on the highest probability decoding from the prior LLM output. For instance, the explanation 204A can be "I would find the table, then find a snack on the table, then bring it to you". The explanation 204A can be prepended to the LLM prompt 205A, replace term(s) of the FF NL input 105 in the LLM prompt 205A, or otherwise incorporated into the LLM prompt 205A.
[0064] The LLM engine 130 processes the generated LLM prompt 205A, using the LLM 150, to generate LLM output 206A. As described herein, the LLM output 206A can model a probability distribution, over candidate word compositions, and is dependent on the LLM prompt 205A.
[0065] The task grounding engine 132 generates task-grounding measures 208A and generates the task-grounding measures 208A based on the LLM output 206A and skill descriptions 207. Each of the skill descriptions 207 is descriptive of a corresponding skill that the robot 110 is configured to perform. For example, "go to the table" can be descriptive of a "navigate to table" skill that the robot can perform by utilizing a trained navigation policy with a navigation target of "table" (or of a location corresponding to a "table"). As another example, "go to the sink" can be descriptive of a "navigate to sink" skill that the robot can perform by utilizing the trained navigation policy with a navigation target of "sink" (or of a location corresponding to a "sink"). As yet another example, "pick up a bottle" can be descriptive of a "grasp a bottle" skill that the robot can perform utilizing grasping heuristics fine-tuned to a bottle and/or using a trained grasping network. As yet another example, "pick up keys" can be descriptive of a "grasp keys" skill that the robot can perform utilizing grasping heuristics fine-tuned to keys and/or using a trained grasping network. Although skill descriptions 207 includes descriptors for skills A-G in FIG. 2A, skill descriptions 207 can include descriptors for additional skills in various implementations (as indicated by the ellipsis). Such additional skills can correspond to alternative objects and/or can be for different types of robotic action(s) (e.g., "place", "push", "open", "close").
[0066] Each of the task-grounding measures 208A is generated based on a probability, of the corresponding skill description, in the LLM output 206A. For example, task-grounding measure A, "0.85", reflects the probability of the word sequence "go to the table" in the LLM output 206A. As another example, task-grounding measure B, "0.20", reflects the probability of the word sequence "go to the sink" in the LLM output 206A.
[0067] The world-grounding engine 134 generates world-grounding measures 211A for the robotic skills. In generating the world-grounding measures 211A for at least some of the robotic skills, the world-grounding engine 134 can generate the world-grounding measure based on environmental state data 209A and, optionally, further based on robot state data 210A and/or corresponding ones of the skill descriptions 207. Further, in generating the worldgrounding measures 211A for at least some of the robotic skills, the world-grounding engine 134 can utilize one or more of the value function model(s) 152.
[0068] In some implementations, the world-grounding engine 134 can, for some robotic skill(s), generate fixed world-grounding measures. For example, any "place" robotic skills can always have a fixed measure, such as 1.0 or 0.9, or a "terminate" robotic skill (i.e., signifying task is complete) may always have a fixed measure, such as 0.1 or 0.2. In some implementations, the world-grounding engine 134 can additionally or alternatively, for some robotic ski 11 (s), generate world-grounding measures based on a corresponding one of the value function model(s) 152 that is not machine-learning based (e.g., is not a neural network and/or is not trained). For example, a value function model can define that any "place" robotic skill should have a fixed measure, such as 1.0 or 0.9, when environmental state data 209A and/or robot state data 210A indicate that an object is being grasped by the robot 110, and another fixed measure, such as 0.0 or 0.1, otherwise. As another example, a value function for a "navigate to [object/location]" robotic skill can define the world-grounding measure is a function of the distance between the robot and the object/location, as determined based on environmental state data 209A and robot state data 210A. or a "terminate" robotic skill (i.e., signifying task is complete) may always have a fixed measure, such as 0.1 or 0.2.
[0069] In some implementations, the world-grounding engine 134 can additionally or alternatively, for some robotic skill(s), generate world-grounding measures based on a corresponding one of the value function model(s) 152 that is a trained value function model. In some of those implementations, the trained value function model can be a language- conditioned model. For example, the world-grounding engine 134 can, in generating a worldgrounding measure for a robotic skill, process, using the language-conditioned model, a corresponding one of the skill descriptions 207 for the robotic skill, along with the environmental state data 209A and optionally along with the robot state data 210A, to generate a value that reflects a probability of the robotic skill being successful based on the current state data. The world-grounding engine can generate the world-grounding measure based on the generated value (e.g., to conform to the value). In some versions of those implementations, a candidate robotic action is also processed using the language conditioned model and along with the corresponding one of the skill descriptions 207, the environmental state data 209A, and optionally the robot state data 210A. In some of those versions, multiple values are generated, where each is generated based on processing a different candidate robotic action, but utilizing the same corresponding one of the skill descriptions 207, the same environmental state data 209A, and optionally the same robot state data 210A. In those versions, the world-grounding engine 134 can generate the world-grounding measure based on, for example, the generated value that reflects the highest probability of success. In some of those versions, the different candidate robotic actions can be selected using, for example, the cross entropy method. For example, N robotic actions can be randomly sampled initially and values generated for each, then N additional robotic actions sampled from around one of the initial N robotic actions based on that initial robotic action having the highest generated value. A trained value function model, used by the world-grounding engine 134 in generating world grounding measure(s) for a robotic skill, can also be utilized in actual implementation of the robotic skill by the robot 110.
[0070] The world-grounding measures 211A are generated based on the state of the robot 110 as reflected in the birds-eye view of FIG. IB. Namely, when the robot 110 is still quite a distance away from the pear 184A and the keys 184B. Accordingly, world-grounding measures F and G, for "pick up a pear" and "pick up keys" respectively, are both relatively low ("0.10"). This reflects the low probability of an attempted grasp of either item being successful, due to the large distance between the robot 110 and the pear 184A and the keys 184B. The worldgrounding measure A, "0.80", for "go to the table" reflects lower probability than does the world-grounding measure B, "0.85" for "go to the sink". This can be based on the robot 111 being closer to the sink 193 than it is to the table 194.
[0071] The selection engine 136 considers both the world-grounding measures 211A and the task-grounding measures 208A in selecting robotic skill A ("go to the table") and sends an indication 213A of the selected robotic skill A to the implementation engine 136. In response, the implementation engine 136 controls the robot 110 based on the selected robotic skill A. For example, the implementation engine 136 can control the robot using a navigation policy with a navigation target of "table" (or of a location corresponding to a "table").
[0072] In FIG. 2A, the selection engine 136 generates overall measures 212A by multiplying the world-grounding measures 211A and the task-grounding measures 208A, and selects the robotic skill A based on it having the highest of the overall measures 212A. It is noted that robotic skill A has the highest overall measure, despite it not having the highest worldgrounding measure. Although FIG. 2A illustrates the overall measures 212A being generated by multiplying the world-grounding measures 211A and the task-grounding measures 208A, other techniques can be utilized in generating the overall measures 212A. For example, different weightings could be applied to the world-grounding measures 211A and the taskgrounding measures 208A in the multiplying. For example, the world-grounding measures 211A can be weighted at 90% and the task-grounding measures 208A weighted at 100%. [0073] Turning now to FIG. 2B, a process flow of how the various example components of FIG. 2A can interact in selecting a next robotic skill to implement, following (or during) implementation of the robotic skill A that was selected in FIG. 2A, and responsive to the FF NL instruction of FIG. 1A and in the environment of FIG. IB.
[0074] In FIG. 2B, the LLM engine 130 generates an LLM prompt 205B based on the FF NL input 105 ("bring me a snack from the table") and further based on the selected skill descriptor 201B ("go to the table"), for robotic skill A, based on robotic skill A being selected and provided for implementation. The LLM engine 130 can generate the LLM prompt 205B such that it conforms strictly to the FF NL input 105 and the selected skill descriptor 201B or can generate the LLM prompt 205B such that it is based on, but does not strictly conform to, the FF NL input 105 and the selected skill descriptor 201B. For example, as illustrated by LLM prompt 205B1, a non-limiting example of LLM prompt 205B, the LLM prompt can be "How would you bring me a snack from the table? I would 1. Go to the table. 2." . Such LLM prompt 205B1 includes "How would you" as a prefix and "2." as a suffix, either or both of which can encourage prediction, in LLM output, of step(s) that are relevant to achieving the high-level task specified by the FF NL input 105. Further, such LLM prompt 205B1 includes the selected skill descriptor 201B of "go to the table", preceded by "1.", which can encourage prediction, in LLM output, of step(s) that are relevant to occurring after a step of "go to the table".
[0075] In some implementations, the LLM engine 130 can optionally generate the LLM prompt 205B further based on one or more of scene descriptor(s) 202B of a current environment of the robot 110 (which may have changed relative to FIG. 2A), prompt example(s) 203B (which can optionally vary from those of FIG. 2A), and/or an explanation 204B (which can optionally vary from that of FIG. 2A).
[0076] The LLM engine 130 processes the generated LLM prompt 205B, using the LLM 150, to generate LLM output 206B. As described herein, the LLM output 206B can model a probability distribution, over candidate word compositions, and is dependent on the LLM prompt 205B.
[0077] The task grounding engine 132 generates task-grounding measures 208B and generates the task-grounding measures 208B based on the LLM output 206A and skill descriptions 207. Each of the task-grounding measures 208B is generated based on a probability, of the corresponding skill description, in the LLM output 206B. For example, task-grounding measure A, "0.00", reflects the probability of the word sequence "go to the table" in the LLM output 206B. As another example, task-grounding measure B, "0.10", reflects the probability of the word sequence "go to the sink" in the LLM output 206B.
[0078] The world-grounding engine 134 generates world-grounding measures 211B for the robotic skills. In generating the world-grounding measures 211B for at least some of the robotic skills, the world-grounding engine 134 can generate the world-grounding measure based on environmental state data 209B and, optionally, further based on robot state data 210B and/or corresponding ones of the skill descriptions 207. It is noted that, due to robotic skill A being at least partially implemented at a time of FIG. 2B, the environmental state data 209B and the robot state data 210B will vary from their counterparts in FIG. 2A. Further, in generating the world-grounding measures 211B for at least some of the robotic skills, the world-grounding engine 134 can utilize one or more of the value function model(s) 152.
[0079] In some implementations, the world-grounding engine 134 can, for some robotic skill(s), generate fixed world-grounding measures. In some implementations, the worldgrounding engine 134 can additionally or alternatively, for some robotic ski II (s), generate world-grounding measures based on a corresponding one of the value function model(s) 152 that is not machine-learning based (e.g., is not a neural network and/or is not trained). In some implementations, the world-grounding engine 134 can additionally or alternatively, for some robotic skill(s), generate world-grounding measures based on a corresponding one of the value function model(s) 152 that is a trained value function model. In some of those implementations, the trained value function model can be a language-conditioned model.
[0080] The world-grounding measures 211B are generated based on the state of the robot 110 after robotic skill A has been at least partially implemented (i.e., the robot 110 is closer to the table 194 than it is as reflected in the birds-eye view of FIG. IB). Accordingly, the robot 110 is closer to the pear 184A and the keys 184B (e.g., within reaching distance of both) that it is at a time of FIG. 2A. Accordingly, world-grounding measures F and G, for "pick up a pear" and "pick up keys" respectively, are both relatively high ("0.90"). [0081] The selection engine 136 considers both the world-grounding measures 211B and the task-grounding measures 208B in selecting robotic skill F ("pick up the pear") and sends an indication 213B of the selected robotic skill F to the implementation engine 136. In response, the implementation engine 136 controls the robot 110 based on the selected robotic skill F. For example, the implementation engine 136 can control the robot using a grasping policy, optionally with parameters fine-tuned for grasping a pear.
[0082] In FIG. 2B, the selection engine 136 generates overall measures 212B by multiplying the world-grounding measures 211B and the task-grounding measures 208B, and selects the robotic skill F based on it having the highest of the overall measures 212B. It is noted that robotic skill A has the highest overall measure, despite it not having the highest worldgrounding measure and also not having the highest task-grounding measure. Although FIG. 2B illustrates the overall measures 212B being generated by multiplying the world-grounding measures 211B and the task-grounding measures 208B, other techniques can be utilized in generating the overall measures 212B. For example, different weightings could be applied to the world-grounding measures 211B and the task-grounding measures 208B in the multiplying. For example, the world-grounding measures 211B can be weighted at 90% and the taskgrounding measures 208B weighted at 100%.
[0083] FIG. 3 is a flowchart illustrating an example method 300 of leveraging an LLM in implementing robotic skill(s) to perform a task reflected in a FF NL instruction, according to implementations disclosed herein. For convenience, the operations of the method 300 are described with reference to a system that performs the operations. This system can include one or more components of a robot, such as a robot processor and/or robot control system of robot 110, robot 520, and/or other robot and/or can include one or more components of a computer system, such as computer system 610. Moreover, while operations of method 300 are shown in a particular order, this is not meant to be limiting. One or more operations can be reordered, omitted or added.
[0084] At block 352, the system identifies a FF NL instruction.
[0085] At block 354, the system processes, using an LLM, an LLM prompt that is based on the FF NL instruction, to generate LLM output. Block 354 optionally includes sub-block 354A and/or sub-block 354B. At sub-block 354A, the system includes scene descriptors in the LLM prompt. At sub-block 354B, the system generates an explanation and includes the explanation in the LLM prompt.
[0086] At block 356, the system generates, based on the LLM output of block 354 and a corresponding NL skill description for each of multiple candidate robotic skills, a corresponding task-grounding measure. Block 356 optionally includes sub-block 356A, in which the system generates the task-grounding measure, of a candidate robotic skill, based on a probability of the NL skill description as reflected in a probability distribution of the LLM output.
[0087] At block 358, the system generates, based on current state data and for each of multiple of the candidate robotic skills, a corresponding world-grounding measure. Although illustrated positionally below block 356 in FIG. 3, it is noted that block 358 can occur in parallel with, or even before, block 356 in various implementations.
[0088] Block 358 optionally includes sub-block 358A and/or sub-block 358B. Optionally, subblock 358A and/or sub-block 358B are only performed for certain of the candidate robotic skills.
[0089] At sub-block 358A, the system, in generating the world-grounding measure for a candidate robotic skill, processes, using a value function model, current environmental state data and/or current robot state data.
[0090] At sub-block 358B, the system, in generating the world-grounding measure for a candidate robotic skill using a value function model that is multi-skill and language conditioned, also processes an NL description of the robotic skill (e.g., an embedding thereof).
[0091] At block 360, the system selects, based on the task-grounding measures of block 356 and the world-grounding measures of block 358, a robotic skill to implement or selects a termination condition (which can be viewed as a particular robotic skill). A termination condition can be selected, for example, when the task-grounding measure for "done", "complete" or other termination description, corresponding to the termination condition, satisfies a threshold and/or when task-grounding measures, world-grounding measures, and/or overall measures for all robotic skills fails to satisfy the same or different threshold. [0092] At block 362, the system determines whether a robotic skill was selected for implementation at block 360. If not, the system proceeds to block 364 and controlling the robot based on the FF NL instruction of block 352 is done. If so, the system proceeds to blocks 366 and 368.
[0093] At block 366, the system implements the selected robotic skill. At block 368, the system modifies the most recent LLM prompt, based on the skill description of the implemented skill. The system then proceeds back to block 354 and processes the LLM prompt as modified at block 368. The system also performs another iteration of blocks 356, 358, 360, and 362 - and optionally blocks 366 and 368 (depending on the decision of block 362). This general process can continue until a termination condition is selected in an iteration of block 360.
[0094] FIG. 4 is a flowchart illustrating an example method of generating a world-grounding measure for a robotic skill based on processing current state data and a skill description for the robotic skill. For convenience, the operations of the method 400 are described with reference to a system that performs the operations. This system can include one or more components of a robot, such as a robot processor and/or robot control system of robot 110, robot 520, and/or other robot and/or can include one or more components of a computer system, such as computer system 610. Moreover, while operations of method 400 are shown in a particular order, this is not meant to be limiting. One or more operations can be reordered, omitted or added.
[0095] At block 452, the system generates an image embedding by processing a current image using an image tower of a trained language conditioned value function model. The image can be a current image captured by a vision component of the robot.
[0096] At block 454, the system selects a candidate action. For example, the system can select the candidate action by sampling from an action space.
[0097] At block 456, the system generates an additional embedding by processing the candidate action selected at block 454, a skill description of a robotic skill (e.g., an embedding thereof), and optionally robot state data, using an additional tower of the trained language conditioned value function model. [0098] At block 458, the system generates a value based on processing, using additional layers of the trained language conditioned value function model, a concatenation of the image embedding and the additional embedding.
[0099] At block 460, the system determines whether to generate additional values for additional candidate actions. If not, the system proceeds to block 464. If so, the system proceeds to block 462 and selects an additional candidate action. In some iterations of block 462 this can include sampling from the action space without consideration of thus far generated values. In some later iterations of block 462, this can include sampling from the action space using the cross-entropy method and based on thus far generated values. For example, the sampling can be around or otherwise biased toward a portion of the action space that corresponds to the candidate action having the highest generated value thus far. The system then proceeds back to block 456 using the newly selected candidate action, but the same skill description and, optionally, the same robot state.
[00100] At block 464, the system generates a world-grounding measure, for a robotic skill corresponding to the skill description (used in iteration(s) of block 456) based on the maximum value, of the values generated in iteration(s) of block 458.
[00101] FIG. 5 schematically depicts an example architecture of a robot 520. The robot 520 includes a robot control system 560, one or more operational components 540a-540n, and one or more sensors 542a-542m. The sensors 542a-542m may include, for example, vision sensors, light sensors, pressure sensors, pressure wave sensors (e.g., microphones), proximity sensors, accelerometers, gyroscopes, thermometers, barometers, and so forth. While sensors 542a-m are depicted as being integral with robot 520, this is not meant to be limiting. In some implementations, sensors 542a-m may be located external to robot 520, e.g., as standalone units.
[00102] Operational components 540a-540n may include, for example, one or more end effectors and/or one or more servo motors or other actuators to effectuate movement of one or more components of the robot. For example, the robot 520 may have multiple degrees of freedom and each of the actuators may control the actuation of the robot 520 within one or more of the degrees of freedom responsive to the control commands. As used herein, the term actuator encompasses a mechanical or electrical device that creates motion (e.g., a motor), in addition to any driver(s) that may be associated with the actuator and that translate received control commands into one or more signals for driving the actuator. Accordingly, providing a control command to an actuator may comprise providing the control command to a driver that translates the control command into appropriate signals for driving an electrical or mechanical device to create desired motion.
[00103] The robot control system 560 may be implemented in one or more processors, such as a CPU, GPU, and/or other controller(s) of the robot 520. In some implementations, the robot 520 may comprise a "brain box" that may include all or aspects of the control system 560. For example, the brain box may provide real time bursts of data to the operational components 540a-n, with each of the real time bursts comprising a set of one or more control commands that dictate, inter alia, the parameters of motion (if any) for each of one or more of the operational components 540a-n. In some implementations, the robot control system 560 may perform one or more aspects of method(s) described herein, such as method 300 of FIG. 3 and/or method 400 of FIG. 4.
[00104] As described herein, in some implementations all or aspects of the control commands generated by control system 560, in controlling a robot during performance of a robotic task, can be generated based on robotic ski II (s) determined to be relevant for the robotic task based on world-grounding and task-grounding measures as described herein. Although control system 560 is illustrated in FIG. 5 as an integral part of the robot 520, in some implementations, all or aspects of the control system 560 may be implemented in a component that is separate from, but in communication with, robot 520. For example, all or aspects of control system 560 may be implemented on one or more computing devices that are in wired and/or wireless communication with the robot 520, such as computing device 610.
[00105] FIG. 6 is a block diagram of an example computing device 610 that may optionally be utilized to perform one or more aspects of techniques described herein. Computing device 610 typically includes at least one processor 614 which communicates with a number of peripheral devices via bus subsystem 612. These peripheral devices may include a storage subsystem 624, including, for example, a memory subsystem 625 and a file storage subsystem 626, user interface output devices 620, user interface input devices 622, and a network interface subsystem 616. The input and output devices allow user interaction with computing device 610. Network interface subsystem 616 provides an interface to outside networks and is coupled to corresponding interface devices in other computing devices.
[00106] User interface input devices 622 may include a keyboard, pointing devices such as a mouse, trackball, touchpad, or graphics tablet, a scanner, a touchscreen incorporated into the display, audio input devices such as voice recognition systems, microphones, and/or other types of input devices. In general, use of the term "input device" is intended to include all possible types of devices and ways to input information into computing device 610 or onto a communication network.
[00107] User interface output devices 620 may include a display subsystem, a printer, a fax machine, or non-visual displays such as audio output devices. The display subsystem may include a cathode ray tube (CRT), a flat-panel device such as a liquid crystal display (LCD), a projection device, or some other mechanism for creating a visible image. The display subsystem may also provide non-visual display such as via audio output devices. In general, use of the term "output device" is intended to include all possible types of devices and ways to output information from computing device 610 to the user or to another machine or computing device.
[00108] Storage subsystem 624 stores programming and data constructs that provide the functionality of some or all of the modules described herein. For example, the storage subsystem 624 may include the logic to perform selected aspects of method 300 of FIG. 3 and/or method 400 of FIG. 4.
[00109] These software modules are generally executed by processor 614 alone or in combination with other processors. Memory 625 used in the storage subsystem 624 can include a number of memories including a main random access memory (RAM) 630 for storage of instructions and data during program execution and a read only memory (ROM) 632 in which fixed instructions are stored. A file storage subsystem 626 can provide persistent storage for program and data files, and may include a hard disk drive, a floppy disk drive along with associated removable media, a CD-ROM drive, an optical drive, or removable media cartridges. The modules implementing the functionality of certain implementations may be stored by file storage subsystem 626 in the storage subsystem 624, or in other machines accessible by the processor(s) 614.
[00110] Bus subsystem 612 provides a mechanism for letting the various components and subsystems of computing device 610 communicate with each other as intended. Although bus subsystem 612 is shown schematically as a single bus, alternative implementations of the bus subsystem may use multiple busses.
[00111] Computing device 610 can be of varying types including a workstation, server, computing cluster, blade server, server farm, or any other data processing system or computing device. Due to the ever-changing nature of computers and networks, the description of computing device 610 depicted in FIG. 6 is intended only as a specific example for purposes of illustrating some implementations. Many other configurations of computing device 610 are possible having more or fewer components than the computing device depicted in FIG. 6.
[00112] In some implementations, a method implemented by one or more processors is provided that includes identifying an instruction and processing the instruction using a language model (LM) (e.g., a large language model (LLM)) to generate LM output. The instruction can be a free-form natural language instruction generated based on user interface input that is provided by a user via one or more user interface input devices. The generated LM output can mode a probability distribution, over candidate word compositions, that is dependent on the instruction. The method further includes identifying a robotic skill, that is performable by a robot, and a skill description that is a natural language description of the robotic skill. The method further includes generating, based on the LM output and the skill description, a task-grounding measure for the robotic skill. The task grounding measure can reflect a probability of the skill description in the probability distribution of the LM output. The method further includes generating, based on the robotic skill and current environmental state data, a world-grounding measure, for the robotic skill. The world grounding measure can reflect a probability of the robotic skill being successful based on the current environmental state data. The current environmental state data can include sensor data captured by one or more sensor components of the robot in a current environment of the robot. The method further includes determining, based on both the task-grounding measure and the worldgrounding measure, to implement the robotic skill in lieu of additional robotic skills that are each performable by the robot. The method further includes, in response to determining to implement the robotic skill, causing the robot to implement the robotic skill in the current environment.
[00113] These and other implementations of the technology disclosed herein can include one or more of the following features.
[00114] In some implementations, the method further includes: identifying an additional robotic skill, of the additional robotic skills, and an additional skill description that is a natural language description of the additional robotic skill; and generating, based on the LM output and the additional skill description, an additional task-grounding measure, for the additional robotic skill. The additional task-grounding measure can reflect an additional probability of the additional skill description in the probability distribution. In those implementations, the method further includes generating, based on the additional robotic skill and the current environmental state data, an additional world-grounding measure for the additional robotic skill. The additional world-grounding measure can reflect an additional probability of the additional robotic skill being successful based on the current environmental state data.
Further, in those implementations, determining, based on both the task-grounding measure and the world-grounding measure, to implement the robotic skill in lieu of additional robotic skills that are each performable by the robot, can include determining to implement the robotic skill based on the task-grounding measure, the world-grounding measure, the additional task-grounding measure, and the additional world-grounding measure. For example, it can include: generating an overall measure, for the robotic skill, that is based on both the task-grounding measure and the world-grounding measure; generating an additional overall measure, for the additional robotic skill, that is based on both the additional taskgrounding measure and the additional world-grounding measure; and determining to implement the robotic skill in lieu of the additional robotic skill based on comparison of the overall measure to the additional overall measure. [00115] In some implementations, the method further includes, in response to determining to implement the robotic skill: processing, using the LM, the instruction and the skill description of the robotic skill to generate further LM output that models a further probability distribution, over the candidate word compositions, that is dependent on the instruction and the skill description; identifying an additional robotic skill, of the additional robotic skills, and an additional skill description that is a natural language description of the additional robotic skill; generating, based on the further LM output and the additional skill description, an additional task-grounding measure for the additional robotic skill; generating, based on the additional robotic skill and updated current environmental state data, an additional world-grounding measure for the additional robotic skill; determining, based on both the additional task-grounding measure and the additional world-grounding measure, to implement the additional robotic skill in lieu of the robotic skill or other of the additional robotic skills that are each performable by the robot; and in response to determining to implement the additional robotic skill: causing the robot to implement the additional robotic skill in the current environment. The updated current environmental state data can include updated sensor data captured by the one or more sensor components in the current environment and after implementation of the robotic skill.
[00116] In some implementations, the method further includes, in response to determining to implement the robotic skill: processing, using the LM, the instruction and the skill description of the robotic skill to generate further LM output that models a further probability distribution, over the candidate word compositions, that is dependent on the instruction and the skill description; identifying a termination skill, of the additional robotic skills, and a termination description that is a natural language description of performance of the instruction being complete; generating, based on the further LM output and the termination description, a termination task-grounding measure for the termination skill; generating, based on the termination skill and updated current environmental state data, a termination world-grounding measure, for the termination skill; determining, based on both the additional task-grounding measure and the additional world-grounding measure, to implement the termination skill in lieu of the robotic skill or other of the additional robotic skills that are each performable by the robot; and in response to determining to implement the termination skill: causing the robot to cease further implementation of any control commands that are in furtherance of the instruction. The updated current environmental state data can include updated sensor data captured by the one or more sensor components in the current environment and after implementation of the robotic skill.
[00117] In some implementations, generating, based on the robotic skill and the current environmental state data, the world-grounding measure, includes processing the robotic skill and the current environmental state data, using a trained value function, to generate value function output that comprises the world-grounding measure. In some versions of those implementations, the current environmental state data includes vision data (e.g., a multichannel image), of the sensor data, the vision data being captured by one or more vision components of the one or more sensor components of the robot. In some additional or alternative versions of those implementations, the trained value function is a language- conditioned value function and processing the robotic skill using the trained value function comprises processing the skill description of the robotic skill. In some additional or alternative versions of those implementations, the trained value function is trained to correspond to an affordance function, and the value function output specifies whether the robotic skill is possible based on the current environmental state data. In some additional or alternative versions of those implementations, the value function is a machine learning model trained using reinforcement learning.
[00118] In some implementations, determining, based on both the task-grounding measure and the world-grounding measure, to implement the robotic skill in lieu of the additional robotic skills includes: generating an overall measure as a function of the taskgrounding measure and the world-grounding measure; comparing the overall measure to corresponding additional measures that are each for a corresponding one of the additional robotic skills; and determining to implement the robotic skill based on the comparing. In some versions of those implementations, the overall measure is a weighted or non-weighted combination of the task-grounding measure and the world-grounding measure. In some additional or alternative versions of those implementations, the task-grounding measure is a task-grounding probability, the world-grounding measure is a world-grounding probability, and generating the overall measure includes generating a product based on multiplying the taskgrounding probability by the world-grounding probability, and using the product as the overall measure.
[00119] In some implementations, causing the robot to implement the robotic skill in the current environment includes causing execution of a language-conditioned robotic control policy, conditioned on the skill description of the robotic skill. In some versions of those implementations, the language-conditioned robotic control policy includes a machine learning model. In some versions of those implementations, the language-conditioned robotic control policy is trained using reinforcement learning and/or imitation learning.
[00120] In some implementations, the instruction strictly conforms to natural language input provided by the user via the user interface input.
[00121] In some implementations, the instruction does not strictly conform to natural language input provided by the user via the user interface input. In some of those implementations, the method further includes determining that the natural language input is not in the form of a question and, in response to determining that the natural language input is not in the form of a question, generating the instruction by modifying the natural language input to be in the form of a question.
[00122] In some implementations, the LM is a large language model (LLM).
[00123] In some implementations, a method implemented by one or more processors is provided that includes identifying an instruction that is a free-form natural language instruction generated based on user interface input that is provided by a user via one or more user interface input devices. The method further includes processing the instruction, using a language model (LM), to generate LM output, such as LM output that models a probability distribution, over candidate word compositions, that is dependent on the instruction. The method further includes, for each of a plurality of robotic skills that are each performable by a robot: generating, based on the LM output and a skill description for the robotic skill, a taskgrounding measure for the robotic skill (e.g., one that reflects a probability of the skill description in the probability distribution); generating, based on the robotic skill and current environmental state data, a world-grounding measure, for the robotic skill (e.g., one that reflects a probability of the robotic skill being successful based on the current environmental state data); and generating an overall measure, for the robotic skill, based on the taskgrounding measure and the world-grounding measure. The current environmental state data includes sensor data captured by one or more sensor components of the robot in a current environment of the robot. The method further includes selecting, based on the overall measures for the robotic skills, a given skill of the robotic skills. The method further includes, in response to selecting the given robotic skill, causing the robot to implement the given robotic skill in the current environment.
[00124] In some implementations, a method implemented by processor(s) is provided and includes identifying an instruction that is a free-form natural language instruction, such as one generated based on user interface input that is provided by a user via one or more user interface input devices. The method further includes processing a language model (LM) prompt, that is generated based on the instruction, using an LM (e.g., a large language model (LLM)), to generate LM output that models a probability distribution, over candidate word compositions, that is dependent on the LM prompt. The method further includes identifying a robotic skill, that is performable by a robot, and a skill description that is a natural language description of the robotic skill. The method further includes generating, based on the LM output and the skill description, a task-grounding measure, for the robotic skill, that reflects a probability of the skill description in the probability distribution of the LM output. The method further includes generating, based on the robotic skill and current environmental state data, a world-grounding measure, for the robotic skill, that reflects a probability of the robotic skill being successful based on the current environmental state data. The current environmental state data optionally includes sensor data captured by one or more sensor components of the robot in a current environment of the robot. The method further includes determining, based on both the task-grounding measure and the world-grounding measure, to implement the robotic skill in lieu of additional robotic skills that are each performable by the robot. The method further includes, in response to determining to implement the robotic skill: causing the robot to implement the robotic skill in the current environment.
[00125] In some implementations, a method implemented by processor(s) is provided and includes identifying an instruction that is a free-form natural language instruction, such as one generated based on user interface input that is provided by a user via one or more user interface input devices. The method further includes generating a large language model (LLM) prompt based on the instruction. The method further includes processing the LLM prompt, using an LLM, to generate LLM output that models a probability distribution, over candidate word compositions, that is dependent on the LLM prompt. The method further includes, for each of a plurality of robotic skills that are each performable by a robot: generating, based on the LLM output and a skill description for the robotic skill, a task-grounding measure for the robotic skill, that reflects a probability of the skill description in the probability distribution; generating, based on the robotic skill and current environmental state data, a world-grounding measure, for the robotic skill, that reflects a probability of the robotic skill being successful based on the current environmental state data; and generating an overall measure, for the robotic skill, based on the task-grounding measure and the world-grounding measure. The method further includes selecting, based on the overall measures for the robotic skills, a given skill of the robotic skills. The method further includes, in response to selecting the given robotic skill, causing the robot to implement the given robotic skill in the current environment.
[00126] Other implementations can include a non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing instructions executable by one or more processor(s) (e.g., a central processing unit(s) (CPU(s)), graphics processing unit(s) (GPU(s)), and/or tensor processing unit(s) (TPU(s))) to perform a method such as one or more of the methods described herein. Yet other implementations can include a system of one or more computers and/or one or more robots that include one or more processors operable to execute stored instructions to perform a method such as one or more of the methods described herein.
Claims
Hide Dependent 
CLAIMS A method implemented by one or more processors, the method comprising: identifying an instruction, the instruction being a free-form natural language instruction generated based on user interface input that is provided by a user via one or more user interface input devices; processing a language model (LM) prompt, that is generated based on the instruction, using an LM, to generate LM output that models a probability distribution, over candidate word compositions, that is dependent on the LM prompt; identifying a robotic skill, that is performable by a robot, and a skill description that is a natural language description of the robotic skill; generating, based on the LM output and the skill description, a task-grounding measure, for the robotic skill, that reflects a probability of the skill description in the probability distribution of the LM output; generating, based on the robotic skill and current environmental state data, a world-grounding measure, for the robotic skill, that reflects a probability of the robotic skill being successful based on the current environmental state data, wherein the current environmental state data comprises sensor data captured by one or more sensor components of the robot in a current environment of the robot; determining, based on both the task-grounding measure and the worldgrounding measure, to implement the robotic skill in lieu of additional robotic skills that are each performable by the robot; and in response to determining to implement the robotic skill: causing the robot to implement the robotic skill in the current environment. The method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying an additional robotic skill, of the additional robotic skills, and an additional skill description that is a natural language description of the additional robotic skill; generating, based on the LM output and the additional skill description, an additional task-grounding measure, for the additional robotic skill, that reflects an additional probability of the additional skill description in the probability distribution; generating, based on the additional robotic skill and the current environmental state data, an additional world-grounding measure, for the additional robotic skill, that reflects an additional probability of the additional robotic skill being successful based on the current environmental state data; wherein determining, based on both the task-grounding measure and the worldgrounding measure, to implement the robotic skill in lieu of additional robotic skills that are each performable by the robot, comprises: generating an overall measure, for the robotic skill, that is based on both the task-grounding measure and the world-grounding measure; generating an additional overall measure, for the additional robotic skill, that is based on both the additional task-grounding measure and the additional world-grounding measure; and determining to implement the robotic skill in lieu of the additional robotic skill based on comparison of the overall measure to the additional overall measure. The method of claim 1, further comprising: in response to determining to implement the robotic skill: processing, using the LM, a further LM prompt that is based on the instruction and the skill description of the robotic skill to generate further LM output that models a further probability distribution, over the candidate word compositions, that is dependent on the further LM prompt; identifying an additional robotic skill, of the additional robotic skills, and an additional skill description that is a natural language description of the additional robotic skill; generating, based on the further LM output and the additional skill description, an additional task-grounding measure, for the additional robotic skill, that reflects a probability of the additional skill description in the further probability distribution; generating, based on the additional robotic skill and updated current environmental state data, an additional world-grounding measure, for the additional robotic skill, that reflects a probability of the additional robotic skill being successful based on the updated current environmental state data, wherein the updated current environmental state data comprises updated sensor data captured by the one or more sensor components in the current environment and after implementation of the robotic skill; determining, based on both the additional task-grounding measure and the additional world-grounding measure, to implement the additional robotic skill in lieu of the robotic skill or other of the additional robotic skills that are each performable by the robot; and in response to determining to implement the additional robotic skill: causing the robot to implement the additional robotic skill in the current environment. thod of claim 1, further comprising: in response to determining to implement the robotic skill: processing, using the LM, a further LM prompt that is based on the instruction and the skill description of the robotic skill to generate further LM output that models a further probability distribution, over the candidate word compositions, that is dependent on the further LM prompt; identifying a termination skill, of the additional robotic skills, and a termination description that is a natural language description of performance of the instruction being complete; generating, based on the further LM output and the termination description, a termination task-grounding measure, for the termination skill, that reflects a probability of the termination skill description in the further probability distribution; determining, based on the additional task-grounding measure, to implement the termination skill in lieu of the robotic skill or other of the additional robotic skills that are each performable by the robot; and in response to determining to implement the termination skill: causing the robot to cease further implementation of any control commands that are in furtherance of the instruction. The method of any preceding claim, wherein generating, based on the robotic skill and the current environmental state data, the world-grounding measure, comprises: processing the robotic skill and the current environmental state data, using a trained value function, to generate value function output that comprises the worldgrounding measure. The method of claim 5, wherein the current environmental state data comprises vision data, of the sensor data, the vision data being captured by one or more vision components of the one or more sensor components of the robot. The method of claim 6, wherein the vision data comprises a multi-channel image. The method of claim 5, wherein the trained value function is a language-conditioned value function and wherein processing the robotic skill using the trained value function comprises processing the skill description of the robotic skill. The method of claim 5, wherein the trained value function is trained to correspond to an affordance function, and the value function output specifies whether the robotic skill is possible based on the current environmental state data. The method of claim 5, wherein the value function is a machine learning model trained using reinforcement learning. The method of any preceding claim, wherein determining, based on both the taskgrounding measure and the world-grounding measure, to implement the robotic skill in lieu of the additional robotic skills comprises: generating an overall measure as a function of the task-grounding measure and the world-grounding measure; comparing the overall measure to corresponding additional measures that are each for a corresponding one of the additional robotic skills; and determining to implement the robotic skill based on the comparing. The method of claim 11, wherein the overall measure is a weighted or non-weighted combination of the task-grounding measure and the world-grounding measure The method of claim 12, wherein the task-grounding measure is a task-grounding probability, the world-grounding measure is a world-grounding probability, and generating the overall measure comprises generating a product based on multiplying the task-grounding probability by the world-grounding probability, and using the product as the overall measure. The method of any preceding claim, wherein causing the robot to implement the robotic skill in the current environment comprises: causing execution of a language-conditioned robotic control policy, conditioned on the skill description of the robotic skill. The method of claim 14, wherein the language-conditioned robotic control policy comprises a machine learning model. The method of claim 15, wherein the language-conditioned robotic control policy is trained using reinforcement learning and/or imitation learning. The method of any preceding claim, wherein the LM prompt strictly conforms to natural language input provided by the user via the user interface input. The method of any one of claims 1 to 16, wherein the LM prompt does not strictly conform to natural language input provided by the user via the user interface input, and further comprising: determining that the natural language input is not in the form of a question; and in response to determining that the natural language input is not in the form of a question, generating the LM prompt by modifying the natural language input to be in the form of a question. The method of any one of claims 1 to 16, wherein the LM prompt does not strictly conform to natural language input provided by the user via the user interface input, and further comprising: generating the LM prompt to include, as a suffix, content that solicits generation of a next step. The method of any one of claims 1 to 16, wherein the LM prompt does not strictly conform to natural language input provided by the user via the user interface input, and further comprising: generating the LM prompt to include one or more scene descriptors that are descriptive of a current environment of the robot. The method of any preceding claim, wherein the LM is a large language model (LLM). A method implemented by one or more processors, the method comprising: identifying an instruction, the instruction being a free-form natural language instruction generated based on user interface input that is provided by a user via one or more user interface input devices; generating a large language model (LLM) prompt based on the instruction; processing the LLM prompt, using an LLM, to generate LLM output that models a probability distribution, over candidate word compositions, that is dependent on the LLM prompt; for each of a plurality of robotic skills that are each performable by a robot: generating, based on the LLM output and a skill description for the robotic skill, a task-grounding measure for the robotic skill, that reflects a probability of the skill description in the probability distribution; generating, based on the robotic skill and current environmental state data, a world-grounding measure, for the robotic skill, that reflects a probability of the robotic skill being successful based on the current environmental state data, wherein the current environmental state data comprises sensor data captured by one or more sensor components of the robot in a current environment of the robot; and generating an overall measure, for the robotic skill, based on the taskgrounding measure and the world-grounding measure; selecting, based on the overall measures for the robotic skills, a given skill of the robotic skills; and in response to selecting the given robotic skill: causing the robot to implement the given robotic skill in the current environment. A robot, comprising: one or more actuators; an end effector; memory storing instructions; one or more processors, operable to execute the instructions to perform the method of any preceding claim. A system, comprising memory storing instructions and one or more processors that are operable to execute the instructions to perform the method of any one of claims 1 to
22.

WO2015006630A2：

Description
INTERACTIVE CONCEPT EDITING IN COMPUTER-HUMAN INTERACTIVE
LEARNING
BACKGROUND
[0001] A collection of data that is extremely large can be difficult to search and/or analyze. For example, in the case of the Web, a large fraction of the data is unstructured and value is locked in the data itself. It is not enough to store the web page of a service provider. For this information to be useful, it needs to be understood. A string of digits could be a model number, a bank account, or a phone number depending on context. For instance, in the context of a ski product, the string "Length: 170,175,180 cm" refers to 3 different ski lengths, not a ski length of 1700 kilometers. An incorrect interpretation of the data may result in useless information.
[0002] As an example, if a user enters the two words "mtor" and "stock" into an Internet search engine, and the results largely consist of web pages related to the drug mTor, the search engine has failed to recognize the search as a stock quote query. As another example, if a user enters the two words "Seattle" and "sushi" into an Internet search engine, and the results largely consist of web pages related to hotels in Seattle, the search engine has failed to recognize the search as a restaurant query. While Internet search engines often do a reasonable job for head queries and documents, the accuracy quickly falls off in the tail because the information is not automatically understood by the search engines.
SUMMARY
[0003] Relevance of search results may be dramatically improved if queries and web pages could be automatically classified in useful categories, such as stock quotes or restaurants, and if these classification scores were used as relevance features. A thorough approach might require building a large number of classifiers, corresponding to the various types of information, activities, and products. The number of classifiers might be further multiplied by the number of language and the number of context (queries, web pages, ad snippets, product feeds, etc.). It is desirable to bring computer accuracy in classification and schematization tasks to human levels, and to make it easy for ordinary people to create computer clones of themselves to perform such tasks at scale. As one example, a tool could be provided that is optimized to allow the creation of classifiers and schematizers on large data sets in a matter of hours. When the classifiers and schematizers are exercised on hundreds of millions of items, they may expose the value that is inherent to the data by adding usable metadata. Some applications of such a tool include search, advertising, and commerce.
[0004] The term schematization as used herein refers to the action of identifying and filling the fields of a Schema. For example, the schema of a recipe could be made of four fields: Title, Description, Ingredients, and Directions. The schematization of a web page for the recipe schema is the action of segmenting the page into one or more instances of the recipe schema and filling the fields accordingly.
[0005] Internet search engines have built hundreds of classifiers and entity extractors in an attempt to understand queries, web pages, and ads. Unfortunately, the efficacy of the current approaches is limited by the number of machine-learning experts, the number of programmers, and the complexity of the tasks.
[0006] Humans are excellent at extracting semantic meaning from data. This is especially true when the data was authored for them or by them. For instance, they can label (or segment) web pages, queries, or product feeds with ease. Unfortunately, humans are embarrassingly bad at doing these things at scale. At ten seconds per page, a lifetime will not be long enough for someone to sift through 100 million web pages to identify all the pages related to a given topic. Computers have the exact opposite capabilities. They are embarrassingly poor at semantic understanding and they are outstanding at doing things at scale. The philosophy behind the approach described herein is to build a highly interactive and intuitive system that leverages the strengths of both humans and computers. "Highly interactive" means that a label or a feature entered by a human should have an immediate effect on computation. Within seconds, it should impact which errors are made or avoided, which item should be labeled next, which feature the user should focus on, and which field of a schema should be added or removed. "Intuitive" means that users should understand the effect of their actions and how to achieve their goals without requiring machine learning or programming expertise. This approach requires cycles from both computers and humans. The cycles may be tightly intertwined through quick machine learning "revisions." Humans are guiding the computers and vice versa.
[0007] Another aspect of efficiency is the ability to build on other people's work. An important contributor to the explosion of the Web was the "view source" and copy-paste capability. In machine learning, the copy-paste capability comes from the fact that trained classifiers can be used as features to other classifiers. By creating a searchable and documented classifier repository, people are enabled to build on each other's work. This applies to both classifiers and schematizers. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0008] FIG. 1 depicts an exemplary operating environment in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
[0009] FIG. 2 depicts an exemplary data set that represents a corpus of searchable data items in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
[0010] FIG. 3 depicts an exemplary probability plot in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
[0011] FIG. 4 depicts an exemplary Active Labeling Exploration information flow in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
[0012] FIG. 5 depicts exemplary sampling distributions in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
[0013] FIG. 6 depicts a summary of exemplary Active Labeling Exploration scaling in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
[0014] FIG. 7 depicts an exemplary classification function in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
[0015] FIG. 8 depicts an exemplary interface in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
[0016] FIG. 9 depicts an exemplary segmentation of a street address in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
[0017] FIG. 10 depicts an exemplary trellis representation of a segmenter in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
[0018] FIG. 11 depicts exemplary parts of an address that have been extracted from a web page in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
[0019] FIG. 12 depicts an exemplary finite state machine for extracting addresses in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
[0020] FIG. 13 depicts an exemplary finite state machine trellis for calculating path probabilities in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
[0021] FIG. 14 depicts exemplary trellis edge-weight functions in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
[0022] FIG. 15 depicts exemplary finite state machine modules in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
[0023] FIG. 16 depicts an exemplary finite state machine in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention; [0024] FIG. 17 depicts an exemplary screen shot of a system for binary labeling of addresses in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
[0025] FIG. 18 depicts exemplary search results in a system for binary labeling of addresses in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
[0026] FIG. 19 depicts an exemplary screen shot of a system for binary labeling of addresses in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
[0027] FIG. 20 depicts an exemplary screen shot of a system for binary labeling of addresses in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
[0028] FIG. 21 depicts an exemplary screen shot of a labeling review panel in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
[0029] FIG. 22 depicts an exemplary screen shot of a model prediction in a user-labeled document in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention; and
[0030] FIG. 23 depicts an exemplary screen shot of a labeling tool in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0031] The approach described herein creates a number of engineering and scientific challenges, which will be discussed. The challenges include:
• Active labeling exploration
• Automatic regularization and cold start
• Scaling with the number of items and the number of classifiers
• Active featuring
• Segmentation and Schematization
[0032] In a first aspect, computer-readable media embodying computer-usable instructions are provided for facilitating a method of interactively generating dictionaries for machine learning. A user interface is presented for generating a dictionary that includes a list of one or both of words or n-grams that define a concept usable as a feature for training a classifier. On the user interface, a positive-example field is presented that is configured to receive user-input words or n-grams that are positive examples of the concept, where the positive examples are received from one or more of A) a typed entry or B) a selection of one or more suggested words or n-grams from one or more suggestion-set fields. On the user interface, the one or more suggestion-set fields are presented that are configured to display one or more system-generated lists that contain suggested words or n-grams that are selectable for inclusion in the positive-example field. [0033] A first user-input word or n-gram may be received that is a first positive example of the concept. A list of suggested words or n-grams may be presented that represent a generalized concept generated based at least on the first positive example of the concept. Subsequent to presenting the list of suggested words or n-grams, a second user-input word or n-gram may be received that is a second positive example of the concept. The list of suggested words or n-grams may be refined based at least on a combination of the first positive example and the second positive example. The refined list of suggested words or n-grams that represent a refined generalized concept may be presented.
[0034] On the user interface, a negative-example field may be presented that is configured to receive user-input words or n-grams that are negative examples of the concept, where the negative examples are received from one or more of A) a typed entry, or B) a selection of one or more suggested words or n-grams from one or more suggestion- set fields. Subsequent to presenting the list of suggested words or n-grams, a second user- input word or n-gram may be received that is a negative example of the concept. The list of suggested words or n-grams may be refined based at least on a combination of the first positive example and the negative example, and the refined list of suggested words or n- grams that represent a refined generalized concept may be presented. A user selection of one or more words or n-grams from a suggestion-set field may be received. The user- selected one or more words or n-grams from the first suggestion set may be included in the positive example field.
[0035] Each word or n-gram in the dictionary may be assigned a respective weight. The respective weight of each word or n-gram may be scaled by a function of frequency and dictionary size based on training data during generation of the dictionary. The scaled weights may be related by a regularization constraint that adjusts the weights of the words that have less training data toward a value determined by the words that have more training data.
[0036] In a second aspect, computer-readable media embodying computer-usable instructions are provided for facilitating a method of interactively generating dictionaries for machine learning. A user interface is presented for generating dictionaries, where a dictionary includes a list of n-grams that define a concept, and where the dictionary is usable as a feature for training a classifier. On the user interface, a positive-example input field is presented that is configured to receive user-input n-grams that are positive examples of the concept. On the user interface, one or more suggestion-set fields are presented that are configured to display one or more system-generated lists of suggested n- grams. One or more user-input n-grams are received that are positive examples of the concept. A first set of suggested n-grams is generated that represents a first generalized concept based on the one or more user-input positive examples. The first set of suggested n-grams is presented in a first suggestion-set field on the user interface.
[0037] A refinement of the first set of suggested n-grams may be generated that that represents a refinement of the first generalized concept based on at least one or more additional user-input positive examples, and the refinement of the first set of suggested n- grams may be presented on the user-interface. The steps of generating the refinement and presenting the refinement may be repeated until an indication is received that the user has finished editing the dictionary, and the contents of the positive-example input field may be saved in a dictionary.
[0038] A second set of suggested n-grams may be generated that represents a second generalized concept based on the one or more user-input n-grams. The second set of suggested n-grams may be presented. The first set of suggested n-grams may be generated utilizing a first source. The second set of suggested n-grams may be generated utilizing a second source. The first source may include one or more of A) a previously-stored dictionary, B) a click graph representing queries and visited web pages, C) content of a table found on the world-wide web, or D) semantic representations of words.
[0039] On the user interface, a negative-example input field may be presented that is configured to receive user-input n-grams that are negative examples of the concept. One or more user-input n-grams may be received that are negative examples of the concept. A refinement of the first set of suggested n-grams may be generated that represents a second generalized concept based at least on the one or more user-input negative examples, and the refinement of the first set of suggested n-grams may be presented on the user-interface.
[0040] In a third aspect, computer-readable media embodying computer-usable instructions are provided for facilitating a method of interactively generating dictionaries for machine learning. An interface is generated for editing dictionaries, where a dictionary includes a list of words that define a concept usable as a feature for training a classifier. On the interface, a positive-example input field is presented that is configured to receive user-input words that are positive examples of the concept. On the user interface, a negative-example input field is presented that is configured to receive user-input words that are negative examples of the concept. On the user interface, a suggestion-set field is presented that is configured to display a system-generated list of suggested words, where the list of suggested words represents a generalized concept based on words in one or both of the positive-example input field or the negative-example field. One or more user-input words that are positive or negative examples of the concept are received, where the one or more user-input words are received from one or more of A) a typed entry, or B) a selection of one or more suggested words from the suggestion-set field. A set of suggested words is generated that represents a generalized concept based on the one or more user-input positive or negative examples. The set of suggested words is presented in the suggestion- set field on the user interface. A user selection of a first suggested word from the set of suggested words is received. The first suggested word is included in the positive-example field or the negative-example field. The set of suggested words is refined based at least on the first suggested word that was included in the positive-example field or the negative- example field. The refined set of suggested words is presented in the first suggestion-set field. An indication is received that the user has finished editing the dictionary, and the contents of the positive-example input field are saved in a dictionary.
[0041] On the user interface, one or more input fields may be presented that are configured to receive one or more of A) a user-selection that indicates whether trainable parameters are associated with each word in the dictionary or whether there is one trainable parameter associated with the entire dictionary, B) a user selection that indicates whether a feature value associated with the dictionary is a binary value based on a quantity of dictionary words or whether the feature value is a pre-determined function of a frequency of dictionary words, C) a user selection that indicates whether word frequencies are normalized, D) a user selection that indicates a regularization threshold that regulates a degree of interrelatedness between respective weights assigned to words in the dictionary, or E) a user selection that indicates whether the feature value is higher when multiple words from the dictionary appear within a document or when a single word from the dictionary appears multiple times in the document.
[0042] Each word in the dictionary may be assigned a respective weight, where the weights are related by a regularization constraint that adjusts the weights of words that have less training data toward a value determined by words that have more training data.
[0043] Having briefly described an overview of some aspects of the invention, an exemplary operating environment suitable for use in implementing some aspects of the invention is described below.
[0044] Referring initially to FIG. 1 in particular, an exemplary operating environment for implementing some embodiments of the present invention is shown and designated generally as computing device 100. Computing device 100 is but one example of a suitable computing environment and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of invention embodiments. Neither should the computing-environment 100 be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement relating to any one or combination of components illustrated.
[0045] Some embodiments of the invention may be described in the general context of computer code or machine-useable instructions, including computer-executable instructions such as program modules, being executed by a computer or other machine, such as a personal data assistant or other handheld device. Generally, program modules including routines, programs, objects, components, data structures, etc., refer to code that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Some embodiments of the invention may be practiced in a variety of system configurations, including handheld devices, consumer electronics, general-purpose computers, more specialty computing devices, etc. Some embodiments of the invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote-processing devices that are linked through a communications network.
[0046] With reference to FIG. 1, computing device 100 includes a bus 110 that directly or indirectly couples the following devices: memory 112, one or more processors 114, one or more presentation components 116, input/output ports 118, input/output components 120, and an illustrative power supply 122. Bus 110 represents what may be one or more busses (such as an address bus, data bus, or combination thereof). Although the various blocks of FIG. 1 are shown with lines for the sake of clarity, in reality, delineating various components is not so clear, and metaphorically, the lines would be more accurately be grey and fuzzy. For example, one may consider a presentation component such as a display device to be an I/O component. Also, processors have memory. We recognize that such is the nature of the art, and reiterate that the diagram of FIG. 1 is merely illustrative of an exemplary computing device that can be used in connection with some embodiments of the present invention. Distinction is not made between such categories as "workstation," "server," "laptop," "hand-held device," etc., as all are contemplated within the scope of FIG. 1 and reference to "computing device."
[0047] Computing device 100 typically includes a variety of computer-readable media. By way of example, and not limitation, computer-readable media may comprises Random Access Memory (RAM); Read Only Memory (ROM); Electronically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory (EEPROM); flash memory or other memory technologies; CDROM, digital versatile disks (DVD) or other optical or holographic media; magnetic cassettes, magnetic tape, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, carrier wave or any other medium that can be used to encode desired information and be accessed by computing device 100.
[0048] Memory 112 includes computer-storage media in the form of volatile and/or nonvolatile memory. The memory may be removable, nonremovable, or a combination thereof. Exemplary hardware devices include solid-state memory, hard drives, optical- disc drives, etc. Computing device 100 includes one or more processors that read data from various entities such as memory 112 or I/O components 120. Presentation component(s) 116 present data indications to a user or other device. Exemplary presentation components include a display device, speaker, printing component, vibrating component, etc.
[0049] I/O ports 118 allow computing device 100 to be logically coupled to other devices including I/O components 120, some of which may be built in. Illustrative components include a microphone, joystick, game pad, satellite dish, scanner, printer, wireless device, etc..
I. The ALE (Active Labeling Exploration) Challenge
[0050] Building a classifier (or a schematizer) on a very large data set presents a unique challenge: From what distribution should the training set be drawn? Randomly selecting items from the true distribution may not yield any positive examples after observing a million samples. A biased sampling could yield more positives but it may be so uncharacteristic of the true distribution that the resulting classifier is unlikely to perform well when deployed into the real world. Consider a fictitious scenario where the task is to build a classifier to find cooking recipe pages over the Web. A random selection of pages is unlikely to return any recipes (even after viewing one million pages). A search for the term "recipe" would return a biased sample of recipes (it would find "Numerical Recipes" and miss "Cooking Adventures"). The traditional development in four phases: data collection, labeling, training and featuring and tuning, and deploying, is suboptimal and can lead to disasters. For instance, one may discover during deployment that the classifier misses many of the ethnic recipes and returns cement mixing pages as cooking recipes. The classifier is not at fault. The problem lies with the sampling and the problem formulation. A classifier trained with a uniform sampling will quickly learn that the constant answer "not a recipe" is good enough for that distribution. A clever operator may tweak the distribution to build a more useful classifier, but this introduces biases that betray the ignorance of the operator. The operator, for instance, may have no knowledge of African recipes until the system is deployed and users start complaining. From the operator's point of view, the world looks like the picture in FIG. 2. FIG. 2 illustrates an exemplary data set 210 ("BIG DATA") that represents a corpus of data to be searched. Region 212 (within the entire ellipse) represents the positive examples the operator is aware of. Regions 214 (the entire region within both ellipses) represents all positive examples within the corpus 210. Region 216 (within the entire ellipse) represents examples, which the classifier labels as positive examples. Region 218 (the relative complement of region 214 in region 216, i.e., the portion of region 216 not contained in region 214) represents examples that are mislabeled as positive by the classifier (false positives).
[0051] The question is, how can a system be deployed that will perform well on data that one does not know exists? One observation is that the operator can be ignorant of the distribution as long as he/she can correctly classify items on demand. The Active Labeling Exploration (ALE) algorithm is based on this observation. Labeling is the process of classifying data or patterns of data as belonging to a particular class, e.g., labeling "321 Market Street" as being part of an address. Active labeling exploration is performed using a large set of unlabeled data (data on which the labeling process has not yet been performed), drawn from the true distribution. After each label (or few labels), a classifier is retrained with the new label, and the large unlabeled data set (e.g., tens or hundreds of millions of unlabeled patterns) is rescored. The system then selects which patterns to label next according to their scores. For this approach to work, one needs to solve the cold start problem (i.e., find "seeds" of positives).
[0052] In one aspect, an integrated interactive labeling system includes a labeling component, a training component, a scoring component, a sampling component, and a search engine component. The integrated interactive labeling system may also include one or more other features, such as where the search engine is based on keyword search; the search engine uses feature scores as a filter; training and scoring are done automatically without being triggered by the operator; or where scoring and sampling can be done asynchronously.
[0053] In another aspect, an integrated interactive labeling system includes a labeling component, a training component, a scoring component, and a sampling component, where labeling can be can offloaded as a service and labeling quality is measured by generalization gains. The integrated interactive labeling system may also include other features, such as where multi-class labeling consists of multiple binary labeling; or where multiple samples are labeled approximately simultaneously using system generated pre- labels, and a verification mode is included in the system to review approximate labels sorted by confidence.
[0054] Consider the example of building a classifier for web pages (the methods would work for queries, images, or other types). Assume that a user has access to 100 million web pages, referred to herein as the working set. These web pages may be biased by importance (e.g., high page rank) but they are not biased by the nature of the classifiers intended to be built. These pages are neither labeled nor ordered. Assume there is a small and biased set of positive and negative examples and that a classifier can be trained with these examples with reasonable generalization performance. (The "cold start" challenge for training classifiers with small data sets with good generalization performance is discussed below.) The result of training is called a "scorer." Scorers have version numbers that reflect the set they were trained on. As soon as the first scorer is available, "scoring" of the working set begins. This process requires a large amount of computing power. As a result of scoring, the items can be ordered by their probability of being an "X," where "X" is a class of the classifier to be built, i.e., where "X" is a positive example of the feature, or label.
[0055] FIG. 3 illustrates an exemplary plot 300 of the number of items 310 versus the probability P 312 that an item is an "X." As depicted in FIG. 3, if the working set is sampled based on the scores produced by a given scorer, the following observations can be made:
• Labeling items around P=0 yields little value. There are many of these items and it is already known that they are not of the desired class.
• Labeling items around P=l yields a bit more value but the items are very scarce. It takes a long time to find them (the whole working set may need to be scored) and one has to dip into the lower probabilities to find items to label. This assumes a distribution like the one shown above (reverse P=0 and P=l if the distribution is lopsided in the other direction).
• Labeling around P=0.5 can sometimes be costly and can yield little information if the class boundary is inherently ambiguous.
• Labeling around P=0.75 finds a false positive in every 4 items. Labeling in this region improves precision. • Labeling around P=0.25 finds a false negative in every 4 items. Labeling in this region improves recall.
[0056] FIG. 5 illustrates examples of sampling distribution around the probability of 0.25 and 0.75 respectively. To sample around 0.75, for instance, one could put all the examples in 1000 buckets according to their scores. The first bucket would have all the examples with scores between 0 and 0.001, the next bucket all the examples with scores between 0.001 and 0.002, and so on. Each bucket may then be assigned a probability of sampling, such as for instance, the right side of FIG. 5. Examples with this distribution would result in a 25% rate of false positives.
[0057] The objective of ALE (Active Labeling Exploration) is to replace the long and arduous "data-collection, labeling, training and tuning, deploying" cycle by an interactive loop that runs in minutes or seconds.
[0058] ALE has three processes that run simultaneously. These are Sampling+Labeling, Training, and Scoring, as illustrated in Table 1 :
Filtering + Labeling Training Scoring
Repeat: Repeat: Repeat:
tmprove precision: If number of labels has increased by If all items have been scored by
Filter working set for items factor / since last training then: latest scorer then: with scores in the » Randomly split working set into • Wait on new scorer neighborhood of P=0.75 Train/Valid3tiori/Test sets. else:
starting with newest scores. » Train n Classifiers C.: on train set. • Find an item whose Label these items. Pick best classifier C, on latest score is oldest. improve Recall: validation set, produce Scorer • Score the item with
Fitter working set for items St, and report Test error. newest scorer. with scores in the else:
neighborhood of P=0.2S Wait on new label.
starting with newest scores.
Label these items.
Table 1: The 3 parallel ALE processes (sampling, training, and scoring)
[0059] The first process (Sampling+Labeling) is driven by the user. The user's task is to improve precision and recall by labeling items selected by the system. The user is oblivious to the training and scoring processes. From the user's point of view, the system simply chooses good patterns to label and the classifier increases its generalization capabilities with respect to an increasingly diverse set. The user may choose to label for precision or for recall, or that choice could be made by the system.
[0060] What happens behind the scenes is slightly more complex. When enough new labels have been collected, a family of classifiers (of different complexities) is retrained. The best classifier of the family becomes the latest scorer. Scoring is an intensive computation process. If the scoring from the previous scorer was not completed by the scoring process, the ongoing scoring is interrupted and the new scorer continues scoring items starting with the oldest scores first. Depending on the task and the size of the data, scoring could take minutes or hours. However, it is desirable that an operator should not have to wait for the querying process: At any point of time, every item should have a score (the scores may come from scorers with different versions), and all the scores should reside in memory. Since the querying is done by an independent process (distributed on several machines), a full linear scan over all the scores should be done in sub-second time (assuming one billion items and 100 machines). Training and scoring are run asynchronously by independent processes so they do not impact the querying response time. The quality of selection of which item should be labeled next degrades if too few items have been re-scored since the last scorer was produced. The ALE information flow is summarized in FIG. 4. User inputs are denoted as "dashed" arrows. The system parameters are denoted as dotted arrows. The data 416 is uploaded once. The labels 418 are supplied by the user and provide semantic meaning to tokens that are identified by the user during training.
[0061] Given new training data 420 and corresponding labels 418, the training 422 produces a new scorer 424. The new scorer produces new scores 426 which, after filtering 428, produce new training data 420. The filters 432 may include dictionaries, discussed below, and may also include previously created classifiers.
[0062] The cycle continues until the operator decides that the scorer's performance improvements are no longer worth the labeling costs. The result is a new classifier 430.
[0063] The "Feature Functions" input 410 depicted in FIG. 4 is discussed below in the discussion of Active Featuring. The purpose of the "Explorative Queries" input 412 depicted in FIG. 4 is for the cold start problem and for exploration (repetitive cold starts) as described below with regard to cold start. The system's "Hyper-Parameters" input 414 has to do with automatic regularization and is also discussed below.
[0064] Coming back to FIG. 3, in one embodiment, a system samples by filtering data around P=0.75 to improve precision and around P=0.25 to improve recall. These thresholds are adjustable. As previously mentioned, FIG. 5 depicts exemplary plots 500 of sampling distributions 510 as a function of score 520. This alternating strategy has proven more useful than, for example, sampling uniformly for all the scores between 0 and 1. A. Interactive Problem Definition Refinements
[0065] The semantic meaning of the classification may change as a function of exploration. ALE provides the flexibility to evolve the task while it is being performed. For instance, one may start with the goal of building a "Home page" classifier. But as the system discovers candidates such as social media pages, obituaries, events, and other pages centered on a single individual during exploration, the definition of what is a home page needs to be refined. This is easily done interactively while running the ALE loop.
[0066] Building a classifier that performs well on data that is not known about when the task is started seems like an elusive goal. However, experience has shown that humans are trustworthy when it comes to labeling, even though they are ignorant when it comes to estimating the shape of a distribution. If humans are paired with a system that cleverly explores the distribution via exploration, very robust systems can be built. The ALE algorithm leverages both the scaling capability of computers and the human ability to provide semantic meaning through labeling.
[0067] Active learning has its challenges. Potential problems typically encountered in active learning algorithms include brittleness of uncertainty sampling, model selection (adapting capacity to the available data), exploration, active featuring, disjunctive classes, and cold start. The ALE system described herein does not have the brittleness of uncertainty sampling because it focuses away from the decision boundary. Automatic regularization (model selection) and cold start are discussed below. In a later section, active featuring and how it complements active labeling is described.
1. Lopsided Data and Reachability
[0068] Active learning is often viewed as a means to increase the efficiency of labeling on a fixed size set with a fixed number of features. In a typical machine-learning setting, the goal is to improve accuracy. The emphasis described herein is different in that it pertains to providing an exploration tool that will help the user add labels and features to produce a valuable classifier or schema extractor. With Big Data with lopsided classes, only a small fraction of the data will ever be observed and some nuggets of positive or negative may never be discovered. When they are discovered, one may as well assume that the distribution has changed. When the distribution is discovered on the fly, the basic assumptions on which machine learning relies - IID sampling for train and test set - are violated. If the number of positives is T and the size of the data is N, one cannot estimate recall without labeling a number of patterns that is proportional to N/T. If T « N, one may never know what the recall is. Learning convergence on the overall distribution cannot be proven.
[0069] However, the overall classifier progress can be measured by means of a measure called reachability. As defined herein, reachability is the number of positives that are classified as positive by the classifier. Let S be the set of positives estimated by the classifier (depicted in ellipse 216 in FIG. 2):
S = {d · classifier output is positive}.
[0070] Let T be the set of true positives within the total data set (depicted in ellipses 214 in FIG. 2):
T = {d · d is positive}.
The reachability (R) is then the number of true positives within the set of positive estimated by the classifier (depicted as the intersection of the ellipses 216 and 214 in FIG. 2):
? = |5 n r|.
Reachability can be represented in terms of either recall or precision, as p = r|T| = 4>|S|, where r is the recall of the classifier and φ is the precision of the classifier. However, recall cannot be computed directly in this case as the set T is not known. However, because T is fixed, reachability is directly proportional to recall. To increase recall of the classifier, one can instead increase reachability. The goals of a classifier-building task can thus be formulated in terms of reachability and precision.
[0071] For example, let φ be the precision in S, i.e., the number of true positives inside S (the intersection of the ellipses 216 and 214 in FIG. 2) divided by the size of S :
Figure imgf000016_0001
and let r be the recall in S, or the num φb =er— of true positives inside Sdivided by the total number of true positives within the data set:
Ι5 Π 7Ί
r = .
\T\
[0072] One can compute an estimate φ ' of φ by labeling a random subset (or all) of the examples in S. The number φ '\S\ estimates the number of positives found by the system. The recall φ '\S\ cannot be computed because T is not known. However, using an estimate φ ' of precision and an estimate φ '\S\ that is proportional to recall, one can track the forward overall progress of the system. At a fixed (or non-decreasing) precision, increasing the reachability increases the recall. Increasing the precision at a fixed (or non- decreasing) reachability also increases precision for a constant (or increasing) recall.
[0073] There are other criteria that can also be used to measure progress. For instance, if most misclassified patterns that are discovered by exploration are ambiguous, then the classifier is doing well on precision; if most misclassified patterns are easily handled by adding features, then the classifier is exploring well,
a. Estimating Reachability
[0074] Reachability can be estimated based on the labeling strategy and the score distribution of the unlabeled examples. As an example of this, let L be the set of labels and U the universe, and let S be the patterns with score > τ, a threshold that one sets (the entire region in ellipse 216 in FIG. 2). Suppose the labeling strategy is defined by sampling according to a probability distribution conditioned on the score of the sample, i one can compute for each document w E U, the probability of sampling ps =
Figure imgf000017_0001
be the number of labeled positives with score s. The expectation for the number of labeled positives can be written as:
E[ms] = nsps.
since p = \T Π S\ = ∑s≥T s, the reachability can be estimated by
Figure imgf000017_0002
[0076] The expectation can be estimated, for instance, by sub-sampling the label set.
[0077] Note: The estimate above can be done in many different ways by covering the interval [τ ... 1] by disjoint intervals. Not all decompositions are equal in that some will have smaller error bars in the estimation.
[0078] With large data sets with lopsided distribution, improving accuracy while assuming a uniformly sampled fixed distribution quickly reaches a state of diminishing returns. A more interesting problem is to view the distribution as a moving target and involve the operator in tracking it down. From a machine-learning theory standpoint, the two problems are very different. Both engineering challenges (scaling, process, user experience (UX)) and scientific challenges (exploration metrics, sampling strategies, revision training, among others) are encountered. The ALE algorithm addresses these challenges. II. The ARCS (Automatic Regularization and Cold Start) Challenge
[0079] To work well, the ALE algorithm needs a few labels, a few features, and good generalization properties of the early classifiers. This requires solving two problems. First, both positive and negative examples are needed, as well as startup features. This is the cold start problem. It is difficult because in a lopsided distribution, the positive (or the negative) examples might be extremely rare. For instance, if the positives are less than one in a million, finding enough of them to get the classifier going could be time- consuming (using random sampling). Without features or a working classifier, the ALE algorithm is of no help. The second problem is automatic regularization. With only a few labels, the classifier needs to be heavily regularized to avoid over-training. Regularization needs to be adjusted automatically so that the complexity of the algorithm can be matched to the increasing number of labels. This could be called the "warm start" problem.
A. The Cold Start
[0080] The problem can be summarized as follows: Assume that a large database of generic examples of the same type T has been entered in the system, how does one distinguish them? To enable training, features (that distinguish the items from each other) are needed, and a means to find positive and negative examples is needed. This problem is addressed by providing modules that implement the IScorer < T > interface. The I Scorer modules may be provided by the system or entered by an engineer (e.g., when the data is collected). A module that implements that interface can compute the function T→ ScoreType, where ScoreType is a type understood by the system (e.g., a floating point number between 0 and 1) for all items in the database. The scores can then be computed on some or all the items, and be queried and sorted. This allows the operator to find the first examples of each class and to label them as such. IScorer modules can also be used as the first features of a classifier. The next cycle occurs through the ALE algorithm.
[0081] If the data type is known a-priori, one can provide some standard system features that are specific to the data. The data-specific features can even accept parameters from the operator. Such features can then be used to distinguish, filter, label, or explore the data. For instance, if the examples are web pages, a system IScorer < WebPageType > could be a module that computes the relevance of a web page with respect to a query. The query is the parameter of the feature and is provided by the operator. Once the query parameter is fixed, the module could run under the ALE algorithm, thus evaluating every web page for its relevance. Such implementation is very inefficient compared to a reverse index, but it has the advantage of being generic. Regardless of the data type T the operator can provide the following:
• A collection of N items of type T.
• Modules (e.g., DLLs) that support the IScorer < T > interface.
[0082] The system does not need to understand the type T. The module could be parameterized outside the system (the provided dll contains the query terms), or the system could provide means for the operator to set the parameters at run time (e.g., a query).
[0083] Given the ubiquitous need for text understanding, both a generic API (where the operator can input a module that implements IScorer < T >) and built-in text features may be supported.
[0084] The definition of a feature may be confusing. The strict definition of a feature is a function whose output is used as the input of a classifier (or schematizer). Since a query is a form of classifier, a feature can be used for querying. Since the output of a classifier can be used as the input of another classifier, classifiers are themselves features. Features come from three places: built-in, operator-generated (without training), and trained classifiers. Some built-in features can be parameterized by the operator (a hybrid). Some built-in features may only be available for certain data types.
[0085] For text features to be enabled, the type T of the items entered in the database must support the IWordCollection interface. This interface allows the automatic build of a reverse index, and enables an efficient query- like interface to the database. For databases that support this interface, the cold start problem is pretty much solved. When this is not enough, and for databases that do not support the IWordCollection, the operator can provide additional modules that support the IScorer < T > interface. Once the system has IScorer < T > modules that are powerful enough to effectively distinguish the items of the database, the cold start problem has been solved.
B. AR (Automatic Regularization)
[0086] In interactive machine learning, the number of labels and features varies over time, as labels and features are added. A classifier may be (re)trained successively with example counts of 10, 20, 40, 80, 160, as the labels are coming in. For each training session, the optimal regularization will be different. It is desirable that the system perform well even with very few examples because finding good examples to label next will help the system learn more quickly. Since this will in turn enable the system to select which examples to label next, the effect on generalization is compounded (each iteration increases the value of subsequent labels). The problem of performing well in the presence of few labels is referred to herein as the "warm start" problem.
[0087] Requiring the operator to manually adjust regularization introduces complexity and is unnecessary. For operators that are not familiar with machine learning, the concept of regularization is hopelessly confusing. Fortunately, given labels and sufficient computational power, one can train a small family of classifiers of different complexity and use cross validation to determine which one generalizes the best.
[0088] For instance, if the task is to recognize handwritten digits, one could have two classifiers: a linear classifier and a state-of-the-art, four-layer convolutional neural network (both take pixels as input and output a probability for each class). The second classifier does much better than the first when trained with 1000 examples per class, but it is comparatively terrible at scoring with fewer than 30 examples per class. The linear classifier produces a very decent classifier and scorer when trained with as few as one or two examples per class. It is remarkably easy to automatically decide which classifier to use if they are both trained and measured with cross validation. At the point where there are enough examples for both classifiers to be comparable, the operator cannot easily distinguish which classifier is better (they have the same generalization performance). This means that with proper timing, switching between classifiers with different regularization can be done transparently, automatically, and without the operator ever knowing.
[0089] Regularization is interpreted herein as constraining the family of learnable functions to a subset of functions more likely to generalize. This can be done at the output level, at the architecture level, or at the input level:
• Output (labels generation): By generating or altering labels, one can control what functions are realizable through training. This constraint can be used for regularization. For instance, instead of training on the set for which one has labels, a new set is generated on which one provides labels using a-priori knowledge. For web pages, this could be done expanding the positive (respectively the negative) examples by using the click graph to find similar pages and assigning them the same labels. For images, this could be done by applying a transformation (e.g., rotation or translation) and assuming that the resulting images have the same labels as the image they originated from. In both cases, the size of the set and the intensity of the distortion can be adjusted. Each regularization value defines a classifier. The winning classifier is picked using cross validation.
• Architecture: One can affect the family of learnable functions by changing the learning algorithms (e.g., SVM, neural net, decision trees) or the capacity parameters (weight decays, training time, number of hidden units).
• Input: One can change the input features. By changing the discriminative power of the input features, different levels of regularization can be achieved. For instance, one may have a set of system features that compute various useful attributes of a web page. By controlling when these input features are available, one can automatically adjust capacity and regularization. For an example of capacity induced by an input feature(s), consider a feature (or set of features) that measures the Log of the size of a web page. That feature may have useful information but it would be a mistake to use it too early. When the number of labeled examples is low, every example may have a different length and it might be enough capacity to perfectly classify the positive and negative examples on the training set. The resulting scorer would then suggest labeling pages based on the length of the page which is likely to be a waste of time. By carefully selecting input features one can construct a family of classifiers with different regularization properties. This could be viewed as an example of "anti-regularization." Capacity is increased selectively.
III. The Scaling Challenge
[0090] The ALE algorithm scales in two different directions. One is the ability to query, score, and train as a function of the number of items. The second is the ability to scale with the number of classifiers and schematizers provided by contributors. An exemplary summary of this is illustrated in FIG. 6 and is generally referred to as scaling 600.
A. Scaling with the number of items
[0091] The leftmost column in FIG. 6 depicts a number of features as items 610 ("ITEM 1" . . . ITEM n"), which represent scaling with the number of items. Scaling with the number of items is a computational challenge. For ALE to be effective, three kinds of computations are required: training, scoring, and querying. Training can be done on a single machine - a linear classifier can train on 1M+ examples in a few seconds - or on multiple machines if multiple classifiers are trained simultaneously. Scoring is an inherently parallel task that can be distributed on multiple machines. The typical "sampling" is most often a filtering operation by scores, e.g., returns items whose probability of being X is between 0.70 and 0.80. Such filtering can be done with map- reduce but it should be very responsive because the user of the system will be waiting for the next item to label. This suggests a distributed in-memory column store optimized for the filtering operations.
B. Scaling with the number of classifiers
[0092] The three rightmost columns in FIG. 6 depict a number of classifiers 612 ("Ci" . . . "C2") that are utilized to score each of the items 610. Scaling with the number of classifiers or schematizers is a human-computer interaction (HQ) challenge. A machine- learning expert can build dozens of classifiers. Recruiting and retaining 100 machine- learning experts is difficult and expensive. Building 10,000 classifiers is impractical without changing the game. ALE allows a company to quickly build 10,000+ highly performing classifiers and/or schematizers.
To build classifiers at scale, three things are utilized:
• Accessibility: Reduce the expertise needed to build classifiers. No machine- learning background is necessary.
• Motivation: Make building classifiers easy, interesting, and magical.
• Efficiency: Vastly improve the efficiency of building classifiers in terms of operator's time.
[0093] Accessibility creates a large pool of people capable of building classifiers. Motivation increases the motivation of people in that pool to build classifiers. Efficiency multiplies the productivity. Motivation is described last below, because it encompasses the other two from a UX perspective.
1. Accessibility
[0094] Ordinary people do not understand machine learning. If the system requires machine learning expertise, then the number of available machine learning experts becomes a bottleneck. To circumvent this bottleneck, the interface may be restricted to only a few actions that require no engineering skills. The interface has guardrails that discourage behaviors that are not compatible with improving generalization. The actions of the operator may be limited to the following:
• Creating a new Classifier/Schematizer task
• Labeling • Featuring:
o Creating a dictionary of terms
o Finding and selecting features from existing classifiers.
[0095] Note that "training," "scoring," and "regularizing" are not standard actions. These computations happen implicitly and transparently. As a result of these activities, the operator will observe a change in the types of errors presented to him or her. This is both an effect of improving precision, and what will contribute to the next precision improvement. Similarly, new patterns will be extracted for labeling. This is both an effect of improving recall (and in some case precision), and what will contribute to the next recall (respectively precision) improvement.
[0096] There will be some progress metrics like precision or estimators of the number of positive or negative examples found by the system, or the rate of improvement around the classifier's class boundaries. Metrics will be displayed with errors to encourage a data-focused approach to training. The use of automatic features is limited to encourage the operator to provide valuable concepts and labels instead. To explicitly discourage over-training, the test set is constantly recycled so there are no benefits to fixing a single error, but rather benefits manifest by fixing categories of errors. The operator may have no machine learning background to start with, but the UX is optimized to train him/her to improve generalization.
2. Efficiency
[0097] The efficiency could be measured in how much energy it takes for an operator to create a classifier with a given precision and recall. This definition can be problematic because one does not know what recall is (on a large data set with few positives, it may be very difficult to know how many positives there are). Even the class definition may not be well defined until some examples are discovered: Is an obituary a home page? Is a cocktail mix a cooking recipe? These questions are likely to arise only during the building of a classifier. Two assumptions are made: First, assume that it is possible to compare two classifiers and unambiguously determine that one is better than the other (better recall, better precision). Second, assume that improving a classifier may include having multiple "revision cycles."
[0098] A revision cycle is defined as an operator input that is a function of a computation, followed by a computation that is a function of the operator's last input. At each cycle, the problem is revised in at least one of three ways: the class definition changes, the distribution of examples to label changes, or the input space changes. These quick and targeted revisions of the problem are different from traditional machine learning. In traditional machine learning, the distribution is usually constant (optimization of the features on a fixed training set). Even in active learning papers, progress is measured on a fixed distribution: the emphasis is on reducing the number of labels to achieve a given error rate on a fixed distribution, rather than exploring and discovering the distribution. A true cycle (or a revision) typically takes months. In contrast, the ability to have tens or hundreds of cycles in a single day radically changes the efficiency of classifier building. The cycle effects are compounded. For instance, when a classifier becomes better as a result of a cycle, it becomes better at finding positive or false positive for the next cycle.
[0099] In the system described herein, cycles come in three flavors: active labeling exploration (ALE), active featuring, and dictionary refining. The first, ALE, has been discussed in a previous section. Active featuring is the activity of creating a feature for the purpose of allowing a classifier to discriminate between positive (respectively negative) and false positive (respectively false negative). It is akin to curing the classifier of "color blindness." Active featuring is the object of the next section. The last form of cycle is specific to the definition of a concept. A concept is defined herein as a group of words, or a dictionary, that defines a concept when the words are viewed as a group (e.g., the concept of car brand is defined by the list of words "Honda," "Ford," "Peugeot," and so forth). The cycle of dictionary refinement results from an operator giving positive and negative examples, and computation provides concept generalization candidates from these examples. The operator can then correct the generalization (by striking out words or adding new ones) and so on. The dictionary refinement cycle is described in a later section.
[00100] Each cycle requires heavy computation followed by targeted semantic input from the operator. This might be inefficient from a computing point of view, but it is efficient from the operator's view point. The operator only needs to work when the system fails to generalize properly. The overall architecture (active labeling and active featuring) is organized to surface these failings early.
3. Motivation
[00101] Accessibility opens up the number of people that could write classifiers. However, that is not enough. Some sort of "magic" is necessary to generate viral adoption. Current machine learning tools are designed by engineers for engineers. They are devoid of magic. This section is about increasing motivation to build classifiers by carefully designing the UX.
[00102] To most people, machine learning is complicated and mysterious. Building a user interface that allows machine-learning-illiterate operators to teach a machine learning system to perform recognition and schematization tasks is a challenge. Described below are simple UX principles, which are designed to make the system understandable and trustworthy:
• Transparency: The state of the system is accessible and directly actionable by the operator (corollary: there are no hidden states/variables).
• Responsiveness: Every operator action produces an immediate and visible effect.
• Progress: There is always a clear action that moves from the current state closer to the desired state.
[00103] The transparency principle makes the system less mysterious and dangerous. The responsiveness principle allows the user to have immediate feedback on their action and learn the "derivatives" of their action. The progress principle identifies the direction to follow to reach the desired state.
[00104] To enable learning, labels and features are needed from the operator. If the labels and/or features change the state of the system, the first principle implies that the labels and features should be accessible and editable. This has several implications:
• Labels entered by the operator may be viewed and edited. Undoing is a trivial operation.
• Features entered by the operator may be viewed and edited. Undoing is a trivial operation.
• System-generated labels and features are highly discouraged. They compromise transparency.
• The system's performance should be independent of the order in which labels or features are entered. Order dependence is unlikely to be easily viewable and actionable.
• The same set of labels and features should always yield the same result. Learning is a semi-deterministic function. If the learning algorithm is sensitive to slight change of features, the first principle is somewhat violated (the operator may not be able to distinguish the input variations). • The data should be "pickled." It is not desirable, for instance, for links in a web page to have dangling pointers that could change the behavior of the system when the links are out of date.
[00105] The first principle will be violated occasionally, but hopefully this will not affect the trust of the operator in the system. For instance, certain features may be automatically provided as system services, like synonyms, misspellings, click graph, and so on. One could freeze these functions, but it might be better to freeze their semantics and let the features be updated regularly and transparently (with a small cost to predictability). If a classifier learns to depend on the semantic meaning of the feature, then regular updates of the feature will improve the classifier. Surprisingly, one may even introduce artificial noise in the system to drive the concept that machine-learning only provides statistical guarantees, not single-pattern guarantees. The resulting non-determinism does not affect the overall performance, but it discourages novice users from over-training.
[00106] The responsiveness principle allows users to quickly learn how to operate the system (feedback). It also produces rewards by translating actions into progress. Every label and every feature should create a visibly better classifier. This is difficult for three reasons: retraining a classifier after every action is expensive. Rescoring all items with every new classifier is even more expensive. And finally, many operator interventions may be necessary for the classifier to show a visible and statistically significant improvement. If exploration changes the distribution significantly, the global metrics may be affected in unpredictable ways. These challenges are compounded by the fact that retraining and rescoring should be transparent. Without infinite resources, the immediacy and visibility aspects of the design principle will be compromised (for instance, by not retraining on every operator input). This can be alleviated by increasing the number of resources dedicated to training and scoring, retraining at regular and frequent intervals (e.g., every 50 labels), and taking advantage of partial scoring (in the ALE algorithm, the query/filtering returns without waiting for every item to be scored). Unsurprisingly, the responsiveness principle is best addressed by increasing the number of resources (compute power) and clever management (partial computation). a. Error categorization
[00107] The progress principle implies that the operator always knows when the job is done and what to do to make the system better. Neither of these two things is simple. When should one stop improving a classifier? How does one know how to improve a classifier? To help answer this question, the errors made by the system are categorized in three buckets:
• Ambiguity errors: Errors for which labelers cannot agree on what the label is.
• Color-blindness errors: Errors for which the system does not have the necessary input information to distinguish the pattern from other patterns that belong to the wrong classes.
• Ignorance errors: Errors for which the system has the input information to distinguish the pattern from a pattern of the wrong class, but insufficient label information to be able to learn the relationship between the input and the pattern class.
This classification of errors assumes that the system has the capacity to learn the problem and is properly regularized. This assumption does not constrain the user interface. If the system did not have the capacity to learn the problem one would have errors of the type:
• Low capacity error: Errors for which the system has the necessary input and necessary labels to classify correctly but cannot do so because of low capacity.
[00108] One need not be concerned about this case because the learning problem can be simplified by adding good features, and for most machine-learning algorithms adding features increases capacity. Therefore, one could only encounter this error as a result of a feature limitation, which would make it a "Color-blindness" error. Conversely, there could be a case where the capacity is too high. In this case, the symptom would be that a large number of "ignorance errors" would be observed even after adding a large number of labels.
[00109] The choice of machine learning algorithm, the expressiveness of the features, and the quality of automatic regularization affect how long it takes to learn and what is the best result that the system can achieve. However, these can be modified and improved without having to redesign the user interface.
[00110] The error categorization helps us address the progress principle, e.g., the first type of error (ambiguity) suggests the desired state: If the majority of errors fall in the "ambiguity error" category, the operator is done. The system has little hope of surpassing the operator. If a large fraction of errors are due to color blindness or ignorance, the operator knows what to do: Color-blindness errors are fixed by adding features that distinguish positive from false positive or negative from false negative. One can design an interface to enable this (next section). Ignorance errors are fixed by adding labels. At any point in time, the system can suggest which type of errors should be addressed for maximum efficiency. If the training and testing error curves of the learning algorithm are close, more features are needed. Otherwise, more labels would be more effective,
b. Immutability
[00111] For the path from the present state to the desired state to be unambiguously clear, one should guarantee that progress is always going forward. This should earn the operator's trust. It requires some precautions. Once a classifier is trained, it can become a feature. Once it becomes a feature, it is not allowed to be retrained as part of a larger model. Retraining a feature as part of a larger classifier could have several negative consequences: First, it could change the semantic meaning of the feature. This could cause operator confusion and backward progress on other features. Second, the capacity of the feature when it was trained may be much higher than the number of labels available on the larger classifier. The unexpected infusion of capacity could cause a backward step. Machine-learning experts may object that freezing the parameters might be suboptimal from a machine-learning standpoint. However, as described herein, system stability and predictability trump optimality.
[00112] Progress can be measured with metrics. For instance, the number of positives found by the classifier multiplied by the precision can yield an estimate on the number of positives reached by the system. This metric is proportional to recall. The precision progress per label made on the boundary (e.g., all the patterns that had a probability of being X between 0.25 and 0.75) is an interesting measure of efficacy.
[00113] Motivation comes from magic. The magic comes from the system generating three things:
• Empathy: The operator should understand the errors made by the system.
Discouraging system-generated labels and features (e.g., "bag-of-words") keeps the system interpretable. Color-blindness errors should cause the operator to be eager to provide new features. Ignorance errors should cause the operator to be eager to provide more labels. The system errors should be welcomed as useful. The transparency, responsiveness, and progress principles all contribute to making the system behave as a gifted learner.
• Surprises: The system should impress the operator by how it pushes the boundaries of what it has been taught. Its errors should zoom in on the missing features/concepts. Its requests for labels should challenge the operator to discover unforeseen example types and to redefine the class concept. The ability to surprise comes from 1) the streamlining of the concept features, and 2) scoring very large data sets.
• Efficiency: With the system doing extraordinary computation for each operator input, the classifiers should make progress very quickly.
[00114] With accessibility, efficiency, and magic, building classifiers will produce both value and wonderment. This will allow classifiers and schematizers to be built at scale. IV. Active Featuring
A. Featuring
[00115] A common activity in machine learning is to search for the right features. People typically do this in an ad hoc way: adding a feature via programming or processing the data, starting a completely independent process to retrain the system on the modified data, then they look at the errors, and so forth. None of it is typically integrated in a system where errors can be browsed and features can be shared and searched without exiting an application. As described herein, active featuring enables interactive feature creation, editing, and refinement.
[00116] Some methods for helping users select features to fine tune a system's performance either select features automatically (e.g., Bag of Words) or select from a number of pre-existing features (model selection, feature selection, and so forth). Active featuring encourages the user to interactively create useful features, and the complexity of the machine-learning algorithm is kept to a minimum. The idea is that it is better to fix errors interactively by adding features and labels than it is to avoid errors by adding complexity in the machine-language algorithm and the feature selection. Complex learning algorithms and a large number of features are likely to work well in an initial phase, but may quickly leave the practitioner with a complex system that no obvious decision can improve; in which case removing errors is prohibitively difficult. In contrast, an interactive loop that allows the user to add features and labels while relying on a simple learning algorithm may yield a more actionable system. When the user has contributed every label and every feature, the errors may become clearer and easy to fix (either by creating/editing/re fining a feature or adding labels).
[00117] As described herein, features can come from 1) pre-existing system features, 2) pre-existing features created on the system by other users, and 3) features created on the fly by the user. For 3), two categories are distinguished: 3a) features that are themselves classifiers and entity extractors built interactively using active labeling, and 3b) word features that are created by entering a list of words (also called a dictionary) to capture a "concept." For instance, a list of months (January, February . ..) captures the concept of "Months." The words in a dictionary together form a feature that can be utilized by computing statistics between a document and the given dictionary (how many words in the dictionary appear in the document, how many distinct words of the dictionary appear in the document, and so forth).
[00118] In one aspect, an integrated active learning system includes a browsing component, a training component, a scoring component, and a user-operated feature - creation component. The integrated active learning system may include one or more other aspects, such as where searchable features are classifiers created within the integrated active learning system, a search for features is guided by labels and classifier scores and validated by the operator, classification errors are organized and displayed to suggest and fix classification feature-blindness, or features are created and shared by multiple operators and stored on a commonly accessible system.
[00119] In another aspect, an integrated system includes a browsing component, a training component, a scoring component, and a feature-creation component based on user-provided dictionaries. The integrated system may include one or more other aspects, such as where the number of parameters for the feature dictionary is independent of the number of words in the dictionary, or the user can specify whether the parameters are common to the all the words in the dictionary or individual to each word in the dictionary.
[00120] By design, the interfaces described herein are agnostic to which learning algorithm is used. In this section, the creation of features is discussed.
[00121] Consider an input space D . For each data item d E D, compute a classification value y from an output space O. To do this, a classification function g is used, which maps a point d E D and a parameter vector w of the parameter space W to a vector y E O. The space of such functions is denoted G :
G : D x W→ O g: d, w→ g(d, w) = y
[00122] For instance, the data space could be the space of web pages, the parameter space W could be a vector of real values computed by a machine learning algorithm, and the output space O could be a number between 0 and 1 representing a probability of being of the desired class for each web page. One problem with this formalism is that the space D may be extremely complex and the set of function G that maps D x W to O could be too large to be trainable from a few labeled examples. For instance, if d is a web page that is truncated to, at most, 100K words, then given a dictionary of, at most, 10M words, the input space's dimension could still be 1012. To simplify the problem, the space D is projected to a lower dimensional space /, which herein is referred to as the "feature space." The set of projections is denoted F . The projection / E F: D→ I is fixed during the training of the parameters. One can now restrict the learnable function from G to a space G' that verifies
G ' (f, h) = {g E G \3w E W, g(. , w) = h{f(. ), w)}
[00123] where h is a function that maps the feature space and the parameter vector to the output. The space of function H: I x W→ O is determined by the learning algorithm. The feature space / induced by F and the learnable function space H are chosen to make the learning of the parameters w easier and require as few examples as possible. For instance, for web page classification, the feature function / could be extracting the term frequency normalized by the inverse document frequency (tf * idf) for the k most relevant terms (e.g., k = 1000) to the classification task. In other words, given a web page of data d, the featurization function computes a feature vector x = /(d) = (fo> fi>—> fk)> where / is the normalized number of occurrence of term i in document d and /o = 1. The classifier could use logistic regression to compute the classification function:
h(x, w) = logistic(wTx)
[00124] Once / and h are defined, traditional machine-learning algorithms can be used to estimate the parameters w using a set of training examples (Xj, If) where Xj = /(d^) and lj are respectively the jth featurized example and its label in the training set. Of interest here is a scenario where an operator building a classifier is allowed to contribute both labels I and feature function /. FIG. 7 illustrates an exemplary information flow 700 that represents a classification function 710 as the composition of a featurization function / (item 712) and a function h (item 714) that is trainable (item 716). The operator can input both features 718 and labels 720 in order to affect the classification function 710.
[00125] In previous sections, active labeling was discussed as a procedure for exploring and improving the classification space. Following is a discussion of the input side equivalent of active labeling: "active featuring."
B. Color Blindness
[00126] There is a significant amount of literature related to the automatic selection of features. It is sometimes referred as "feature selection." The implicit goal of automatic feature selection is to improve generalization given a training set. The goal as described herein is different: Provide the operator with a means to contribute the feature-equivalent to labels. This is following the principle described above that humans should contribute semantic meaning and computers should provide scale. In the previous section, three classes of errors were distinguished: ambiguity, ignorance, and color blindness. Ambiguity errors are beyond fixing (they come from the operator or the intrinsic noise of the problem). Ignorance errors are fixed by adding labels. Color blindness errors are fixed by using "color filters," or following machine-learning terminology, by adding features that allow the system to "see" the difference between members of one class and members of a different class.
[00127] The interface for featuring may be problem specific. For instance, a feature could be a function of pixels in image recognition, a function of words in query classification, or a function of cepstral coefficients in speech recognition. The operator is not required to understand pixels, cepstra, or bag-of-words to build a classifier. But there is a need for someone that does to set up the problem. Two kinds of users are therefore distinguished:
· The Engineer: This user can program and knows the basics of machine learning.
The engineer is responsible for doing the following four things:
o Uploading the data to the system.
o Providing a generic featurizer that converts the data into a set of features that the training algorithm can consume.
o Providing a visualizer that converts the data into something that can be displayed by the system,
o Selecting the training algorithm and set its hyper-parameters if required. • The Operator: This user has no engineering or machine-learning background. The operator is responsible for creating and training classifiers and schematizers.
[00128] Once the engineer has set the problem, operators can build multiple classifiers and schematizers. At the beginning, the inputs of the new classifiers are the generic feature(s) provided by the engineer or the system. Once some operators have built and trained some classifiers, they can be frozen into features. As described above, features are immutable. These new features then become available for input for building higher level classifiers, thus creating an eco-system.
[00129] An operator could build a classifier by selecting a few features and then turning to the ALE algorithm to add labels. Indeed, many systems in machine learning operate from a fixed set of features. For big data with lopsided distribution, however, one does not know a-priori which features will be needed. The need for new features is likely to manifest itself through exploration. For instance, while building a cooking recipe classifier, it may be useful to have a feature that identifies ingredients found in African recipes. The operator may not have known about the existence of African recipes and their specific ingredients until they are discovered through exploration. When building a car detector, having a wheel (or circular shape) detector as a feature would make the segmentation problem a lot easier. The operator may not have known that the problem was too hard without this additional feature until she attempted to build the classifier. To address this limitation, the operator should have the flexibility to add features as needed. In active featuring, an operator inspects the errors made by the classifier, and searches for features that enable the classifier to easily distinguish portions of positive from false positive or conversely, portions of negative from false negative. In other words, the operator is looking for "color blindness" on the part of the classifier. Once color blindness has been identified, the operator can focus on creating a feature to provide a "color filter" in order to cure the blindness.
[00130] The active featuring process is a loop in which the operator inspects errors, creates features and/or edits/refines features, retrains the system, and re-scores the labeled examples for the next iteration. However, creating new features often requires new labels. So the active featuring process is itself embedded in a large loop, which involves both active featuring and ALE, herein referred to as the RAFALE (Repeat Active Featuring Active Labeling Exploration) loop. This is summarized in Table 2:
RAFALE Active Featuring Feature Creation Repeat: Repeat: Repeat:
Active Featuring Inspect Errors Search existing features
Active Labeling Exploration Create and Add features (and/or Create new classifier
Create or Refine existing features) Create domain specific features
Train
Score labeled set
Table 2: RAFALE (Repeat Active Featuring Active Labeling Exploration) Loop
[00131] To create a feature, the operator has 3 choices: 1) find a system feature or a feature created by another operator (using a search engine), 2) create a custom-made classifier to implement the desired feature, or 3) create a domain specific feature. The first choice leverages the power of a community. The second choice leverages the ability to quickly create a classifier using an integrated tool. This ability is not generally available because labeling, training, scoring, and featuring are typically done with different tools and often different people. The third choice depends on the domain. An interface is described below for entering domain- specific features for items containing lists of words. C. Words and Dictionaries
[00132] In many applications of machine learning, the basic features are words, which may include individual words, stemmed versions of the words (e.g., words in which inflection denoting plural, past tense, and so forth have been removed) as well as n-grams (sequences of consecutive words or stems). Often, the representation of choice is bag-of- words. In this representation, the features are based on the frequency of each word (TF: term frequency) in a document with some normalization (IDF: inverse document frequency). While it is possible to get good results with these features, they lack the power of expressing and generalizing to concepts. For instance, while it is possible to count the frequencies of Honda and Toyota in a document, it is preferable to have features that generalize to all the car brands.
[00133] Described below is a tool for interactively building dictionaries that represent concepts, for the purpose of being used as features for classification or entity extraction. Concepts are created interactively as part of the active featuring loop to address the errors made by the machine-learning algorithm.
[00134] In this section, the items in a database are assumed to be documents made up of words. However, the concepts of documents and dictionaries as described herein are not limited to the use of words, and may include other kinds of data. The assumption is also made that the words inside a document have no inter-relationship (bag-of-words model), and a TF*IDF vector representation is used as the basic feature vector. Before the notion of dictionaries is introduced, this representation needs to be explicitly described.
[00135] Assume that C is a collection of documents in the database, and T is a set of terms that are relevant for the classifier that is to be built. For instance, T could be the set of all the words that appear in the corpus C. For each document d and term t, the term frequency tf(t, d) can be computed, which is the number of occurrences of word t in d divided by the length of the document. Intuitively, the term count represents a direction in the semantic space of words. It is normalized by the length of the document to be invariant to verbosity. All the terms do not carry the same amount of information. In particular, the number of bits communicated by the statement "the term t occurs in document d" is given by the formula:
|C |
idf (t' C) = l09 \{d E C : t E d} \
where \ C \ is the cardinality of C and \{d E C■ t E d}\ is the number of documents where the term t appears. This quantity is also called the inverse document frequency. For each document d, the tf*idf feature vector representation of document d is defined as
x(d) = (t/(t, d) * idf{t, C))teT
and has two useful properties: it is invariant to the length of the document and the variance of each word feature is proportional to its information content. Table 3 summarizes how the tf*idf representation is computed:
Doc
wordl word2 word3 word4 Length
docl 0 2 0 1 100 doc2 1 0 0 0 147 doc3 0 0 0 1 1234 idf 3.1 2.3 6.8 0.5
Table 3: Counts of each word in each document
[00136] The tf * idf value is computed by dividing the counts by the document length (last column) and multiplying the result by the inverse document frequency (the last row). The resulting row vectors are the feature representations of each document.
[00137] If logistic regression is used for classification, it is desirable to regularize the weights and to not rescale the input to adjust their variance. This is because in the word space, the problem is very high-dimensional and there are very few labels. For logistic regression, the classification function is: yP = h(xp, w) = logistic
Figure imgf000036_0001
where xp is the feature representation of pattern p, yp is the output of the classifier and i is an index over the terms of T. The objective function is:
E(w)
Figure imgf000036_0002
where P is the label for pattern p, and 1 is a regularization parameter. One should realize that |Γ| may be several orders of magnitude larger than the number of labels. The regularizer could be |w|2 or |w| . If there were no regularizes (i.e., λ = 0), the idf normalization could be absorbed into w during training.
[00138] If each word in a given dictionary is given its own weight, then the system becomes more equivalent to bag-of- words. The idea is that an operator could communicate invaluable information to the classifier by specifying features that capture semantic meaning. The operator is allowed to single out words in small groups and the individual small group can still have a shared weight, which might be important for additional regularization constraints. If all the words in the dictionary share the same parameter, then their semantic is also shared.
[00139] For instance, when building a classifier for automotive, a feature could be a dictionary of all the car brand names, such as {"Toyota," "Ford," "Peugeot," ... } . Another interpretation of featuring is that the operator is "tying" the parameters of the model. Imagine that the tf*idf representation is still being used, but that the parameters for the terms in the dictionary {"Toyota," "Ford," "Peugeot,"... } are tied to a common value. The generalization value is immediate: if the dictionary contains rare car brands (e.g., Maserati), the classifier can perform well on documents about that car brand even though no labeled document in the training made any reference to cars of that brand. For example, if both the words "Honda" and "Maserati" appear in a car brand dictionary and if the word "Honda" appears in many training examples, the system will be able to generalize to "Maserati" even though no examples of "Maserati" appear in the training set.
[00140] It is possible to have a system that is in between having a weight per word in a dictionary, and a single weight for the whole dictionary. This is done by having a weight per word, but by constraining the weights within a dictionary with a regularization constraint. As soon as a dictionary is entered, the corresponding weights have a common shared value (many gradient descent learning algorithms generalize easily to the weight sharing concept). The idf scaling of the term frequency contribution is desirable because terms that carry less information should not have an equal weighting on the value of the shared weight. After scaling, all the parameter Wj contributions are comparable. The weight sharing constraint can be relaxed and one can induce groups of weights to be similar. As one example, one may constraint a group of weights to be close to their average. In that case, a regularizer may be used to tie the group of weights to their average, such that the weights of the words within the dictionary are constrained to not deviate too much from their average. An exemplary regularization constraint could have the form: ceE jejc
where E is the set of dictionaries, Jc is the set of indices for the terms in dictionary c, wj^ is the average of the parameters for the terms indexed by Jc, and y is a regularization parameter. In this setting, the weights corresponding to a common dictionary are tied by a regularization constraint. For a large value of y, the constraint above strongly enforces near equality which is equivalent weight sharing, or equivalent to having one weight per dictionary. In all likelihood, the regularizer y will be larger than λ because the prior knowledge communicated by the operator is much stronger than the prior knowledge that most Wi are small.
[00141] The weight for each dictionary can be scaled as a function of document frequency or dictionary size prior to applying the regularization constraint, in order to keep each weight on comparable scale. In effect, in the previous example, this allows the word "Honda" to transfer its knowledge to the word "Maserati" through the regularization constraint, but it still allows the word "Maserati" to have a different weight if there is enough "Maserati" data to pull the weight in a different direction.
D. Interactive Concept Editing (Active Conceptualizing)
[00142] As an example of creating a classifier, assume the goal is to create a classifier for "home pages":
• Positive: Personal page, social media pages, academic pages, and so forth
• Negatives: search results, directory, events, obituaries, companies, commercial pages, and so forth
• Ambiguous: Fictional people, famous dead people, resumes, and so forth. [00143] The dictionaries might be created in this order (it is hard to guess until the tool is built):
• Home page: ["Home page", "Bio", "Resume", "Hobbies", "Facebook", and so forth]
· Contact info: ["Contac information", "Address", "Phone", "email", and so forth]
• First names: ["John", "Steven", and so forth]
• Last names: ["Smith", "Dupont", and so forth]
• Search/directory: ["Search", "Login", "Signup", and so forth]
• Obituary: ["obituary", "passed away", "died", "beloved", and so forth].
[00144] The first four dictionaries help find positives (remove false negatives). The following two reduce the number of false positives. This process is highly interactive. It is difficult to know which dictionary will be useful without building the classifier. The user may decide to create a classifier for obituaries or for events on the fly. This process is recursive. The features/classifiers created on the fly are not required to be good. To be useful, they only need to be better than chance and bring new information.
1. Issues
• If the number of dictionaries is large, one may think that featuring is similar to creating rules and exceptions, in the tradition of "expert systems" and old style "AI." However, there are three things that may be taken into account:
o First, dictionaries are merely features or filters. How they are combined is completely left to the machine-learning algorithms. From the user's viewpoint, there is no explosion of complexity. The featuring task is merely to provide the system with the means of distinguishing positive from false positive or negative from false negative. The complexity of adding the 1st or the nth dictionary is the same. The operator is providing sensors, not rules.
o The difference between building classifiers efficiently and inefficiently is likely to come from keeping the dictionaries "clean" in terms of semantic meaning. For instance, in the Home Page example above, it would be a bad idea to mix the dictionary of home page cues with the dictionary that detects whether there is an address in the page. This would reduce compositionality. While adding a few address terms to the first dictionary is better than not having an address dictionary, having two dictionaries for two semantic meanings is far better. It allows the system to weight their influence differently and it makes debugging and reusability of feature- dictionaries much easier. The "sensors" should be as orthogonal and pure as possible. Maintaining clean dictionaries may also make them better suited for later reuse. Pure dictionaries are easier to understand by other humans and more likely to be helpful to other classification problems, o The optimization is non-parametric. This means that through cross validation, the capacity of the system is adjusted automatically to match the amount of data available. The system should perform as well as any currently in-use system based on bag-of-words, with the same amount of data. The additional information provided by a feature could be very helpful if it saves the operator from entering thousands of labels.
• The dictionary editing could be useful for any system that uses bag-of-words. This may work well for data where the relationship between the words is hard to extract, e.g., queries, ad text, user product descriptions, or free flow text. For documents that have a schema structure, such as recipes, job descriptions, products, and forums, the positional information and the relations between the words is important. This will be the object of the next section.
• Entering dictionaries could be a tedious task. For instance, the dictionary of first names and last names in the previous example would have many entries. The dictionary for cooking ingredients extracted from freebase had 1 ,709 ingredients at the time of this writing. Fortunately, the process of entering dictionaries can be automated. This is the object of the next sub-section.
[00145] In one aspect, an integrated system includes a component with means to display training patterns, a training component, a scoring component, and a dictionary-editing component. The four components are used in an active featuring loop. The dictionary- editing component contains an interactive loop to allow the operator to edit and refine concepts characterized by lists of words or group of n-grams.
[00146] In another aspect, a dictionary feature is provided in which each word or n-gram in the dictionary has its own weight. The weights of the dictionary can be rescaled by a function of frequency and dictionary size. The rescaled weights are tied by a regularization constraint that pulls the weights of the words that have less training data toward a default value determined by the words that have more training data. [00147] In another aspect, a dictionary interface is provided for constructing the features of a classifier or entity extractor. The interface allows concepts, defined by a large list of words or n-grams, to be specified interactively by providing a small list of positive or negative word or n-gram examples. At each iteration, the concept list is automatically expanded using a collection of algorithms and editing by using input.
[00148] In another aspect, a dictionary interface is provided for constructing the features of a classifier or entity extractor. Each feature is composed of a list of words or n-grams. The interface allows the operator to specify options on how the feature is computed. The generalization effects of various options alternatives are computed on a validation set and previewed.
2. Dictionary Creation
[00149] A dictionary can be viewed as a concept. As a concept, it can be generalized. When an operator types a few positive examples for a dictionary, the system can provide suggestions for possible generalizations. If the generalization is too aggressive, the operator can provide feedback by adding negative examples. This becomes an iterative process where the operator provides positive and negative examples to guide the system toward the correct generalization of a targeted concept. This follows the philosophy described above: the operator provides semantic meaning, and the system provides computation at scale to refine the meaning. This section is divided into two parts: A user interface for active conceptualization, and a collection of algorithms for concept generalization.
a. Active Conceptualization Interface ( ACI)
[00150] The goal of the interface is to help the operator communicate concepts to the system in order to create dictionaries. The dictionary creation and editing can be done in a feedback loop where the user provides a list of positive examples. FIG. 8 illustrates an exemplary interface 800 suitable for use with active conceptualization and dictionary editing. When the operator clicks on the Refresh button 822, the system generates suggestion sets 810, such that each suggestion set 810 is a new list of words meant to generalize the concept implied by words entered by the user. Each suggestion set 810 is generated using a different algorithm. The user can then add more words as positive examples 816 or negative examples 818 by typing them, or by clicking or dragging them from a proposed list.
[00151] Words from the suggestion sets 810 may be added to a working set 812 by clicking on a corresponding Add button 814. Words clicked on, or selected, in the suggestion sets 810 are added to positives 816. Words selected in the working set 812 are added to a negative set 818. Other methods for adding positives 816 and negatives 818 may also be used, such as clicking on the suggestion set words 810 to add positives and shift-clicking on the suggestion set words 810 to add negatives. For large sets, the operator can copy an entire suggestion set 810 to the working set 812. The suggestion sets 810 are recomputed for each edit. Clicking on the Done button 820 submits the union of the positives 816 and the working set 812 as a new dictionary. Alternatively, clicking on the Clear button 824 clears the words from the working set 812.
[00152] The dictionary editing interface could present machine-learning options (e.g., check box, thresholds) that constrain how they are used as features. For instance, a dictionary interface could have checkboxes or dialog boxes for:
• A flag that indicates whether each word has its own trainable parameters (as opposed to one parameter for the whole dictionary),
• A flag or an option to make the feature value a function of quantity (the dictionary feature could have 0 or 1 value (binary) or be a pre-determined function of the dictionary term frequency,
• A flag that indicates whether the term frequencies are normalized (e.g., multiplied by a function of the inverse term frequencies, IDF),
• A regularization threshold, which suggest the degree of tying between the weight of a dictionary, and
• A flag or an option to favor diversity: different word appearing in a document generates a higher feature value than the same word appearing multiple times.
[00153] The dictionary option interface can preview the generalization effects of each option by training the classifier or entity extractor with or without the option and by measuring its performance on a validation set.
[00154] When the operator is finished, the union of the positive set and the working sets is saved as the new dictionary. This interface is very interactive in the sense that the system provides immediate feedback to the operator as to what it understood to be the concept. The operator can react and refine the system's interpretation.
[00155] There are many ways to generate valid concepts captured by a list of words. Some points are:
• Users may generate a concept captured by a long list of words by only typing a few positive and optionally a few negative examples. • The concept editing is an interactive process that can go through several refinements.
• The suggestion sets can be of multiple natures. For instance, one could come from a collection of pre-existing dictionaries (based on tables found on the Web, or database such as Freebase). Another could come from semantic concepts automatically derived from clustering words based on a large database of documents. A third one could come from analyzing a click graph on (query, URL) pairs (queries that generate clicks on the same page are probably related and their words are probably in a related concept). Even though the suggestion sets have very different origin, they can share a common interface for concept editing. Some algorithms for active conceptualization are described more fully below.
b. Active Conceptualization Algorithms
[00156] The ACI can be used to allow the operator to interact with different active conceptualization algorithms. For example:
• Knowledge Bases: Freebase and Yago are examples of knowledge databases that contain many human-entered dictionaries. It is possible to test each human-entered dictionary for inclusion of the positive and exclusion of the negative. A matching dictionary is a suggestion set.
• Click Graph: This graph is a bi-partite graph between queries and web pages, where an edge means that a particular web page was clicked by a user after submitting the corresponding query. This induces a topology on the queries, and by extension, on words. For instance, a set of words can be looked up as queries. The click history on these queries induces a probability distribution of clicks on the associated web pages by following the edges of the graph for the queries. One can then induce a probability on queries that could have generated the clicks on these pages. The top (highest probability) queries of the induced distribution can be used as a dictionary suggestion.
• Link Graph: The hyperlink graph connects documents to each other through hyperlinks embedded in their HTML code. This provides another topology that can be exploited in a similar manner as the proposed click graph technique.
• Web Tables: An analysis of the tables (or the columns or rows of tables) found on the Web can provide a list of semantically meaningful dictionaries. An algorithm similar to Freebase can be used to suggest dictionaries. • Semantic Representations: The internal representation of the classifier induces a topology on English words. In that topology, words that are close to the positive set and further apart from the negative set are candidates for the suggestion set.
[00157] Each of these algorithms provides a different form of generalization. It is fortunate that a common interface can be used for an operator to interface with all of them. The ACI allows an operator to enter concepts implemented by large dictionaries with relatively few interventions.
3. Dictionary Smoothing
[00158] One issue with using dictionaries to define a classifier is that a dictionary may be likely to misfire on a word that occurs in multiple, unrelated contexts. For example, suppose a dictionary for movies is built by inputting a list of movies found on the Web.
However, the list includes a movie called "It." The problem with a movie called "It" is that the word "it" may appear in almost every document in the database. This may significantly impact the dictionary's ability to measure the presence of the intended concept. As another example, suppose a dictionary is created for "months." It misfires on sentences like "May I help you," and "I had dinner with April." The problem is that in the wrong context, the word misfires and introduces errors.
[00159] Such potential misfiring can be addressed by means of dictionary smoothing. The idea of dictionary smoothing is that the context of a particular word may be used to try to predict whether the dictionary should fire on that word or not. The context of a given word includes some number of words that immediately precede and follow the word. With regard to the "months" dictionary, for the word "May," all the instances of "may" throughout the entire corpus might be considered. For each instance of "may," the two words before and the two words after the word "may" might be examined, for example. Based on those four words, a prediction may be made as to whether the word in the middle ("may") is a month or not.
[00160] Continuing with the example of using the two words before and the two words after the given word, suppose that one looks at every possible group of five words in a corpus. Suppose the corpus contains 100 million pages, and every page has an average of 2000 words. For every group of five words, one may predict whether the middle word is a month from the other four context words. This may be done by counting word occurrences over a large corpus. For each word, one may count the number of times it occurs in a group of five words in which the middle word belongs to the month dictionary. Similarly, one may count the number of times the word occurs in a group of five words in which the middle word does not belong to the month dictionary. With these counts, one may estimate the probability that a group of five words contains a dictionary word by looking only at the four context words.
[00161] For example, one might predict that "1998" is a good predictor of a month. So, the phrase "May 1998" helps to determine that the dictionary should fire on that occurrence of "May." Every four-digit number may be good predictor of months. However, in the sentence "May I help you," the word "I" might be a good predictor of "may" (as a non-month), but is not a good predictor of "February," i.e., "February I help you" is not a phrase that would occur often, if at all.
[00162] Additionally, one may choose not to train the system on problematic words, e.g., don't train the system on the word "May." In that case, the system is only trained to predict the desired concept without "may," and so the word "I" will not contribute at all for "May I help you," but "1998" will contribute because there are many examples of other months that occur in the context of "1998."
[00163] Another way of describing dictionary smoothing is to look for word substitutability, i.e., whether other words in the dictionary can be substituted for a given word. In a text window (i.e., the context of the given word), one may determine whether the middle word can be alternatively replaced by some of the dictionary words. For that purpose, one may examine a probability estimate, for each substituted word, that the middle word belongs to the dictionary either using the counting technique defined above, or other language modeling techniques.
[00164] For instance, suppose a car brand dictionary includes the terms Honda, Toyota, and Ford, and the sentence "President Ford came into Office in 1973" is being evaluated. Without dictionary smoothing, the dictionary would misfire on "Ford." But if other car brands are substituted for "Ford" in that sentence, e.g., "President Honda," or "President Toyota," one may determine that the phrases "President Honda" and "President Toyota" do not occur, or rarely occur, within the entire corpus, and can thus determine that a context of "President X" is very unlikely for a car brand. As a result, the dictionary no longer fires on the phrase "President Ford" because within that context the other words in the dictionary cannot be substituted for "Ford." This eliminates a large number of misfirings. [00165] A detailed discussion of Dictionary Smoothing follows. The notions of context and dictionary are defined, and then estimating the probability of words belonging to a dictionary as a function of contexts is described.
a. Context
[00166] Given a document a and a position p, a word extraction function is defined as e: (a, p)→ w
which returns the word at position p in document a. Given a set B = (bQ, .... b^) of relative position to p, the context extraction function eB is defined as:
eB: (α, ρ)→ e(a, p + bQ), ... , e(a, p +
where e(a, p + br) is the word in document a at the r'th offset br with respect to position p. For example, for B = (—2, -1), eB (a, p) returns the two words in document a just before position p. If document a is "The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog", then 6 _2 -i) (<Zi 4) = (brown, fox). Note that for B = (0), eB = e.
[00167] Notations: B = (b0, ... , bi_ ) is used to denote an ordered list. Equality between ordered lists requires all the elements to be equal and the order to be respected. However, in b £ B, B is treated like a set (b E {b0, ... , -i}). The notation et is used as a short form of eBi.
[00168] Given a context extraction function et, the contextual predicate cf is defined as:
c a, p) = (w £ e; (a, p))
which means that the observed word w is in the context i of position p in document a.
This predicate assumes that the position of word w in the context is not important.
[00169] Similarly, the formula
ct w° W'- 1 0, p) = ((w0, ... , ΙΑ^) = e;(a, p)) is defined to mean that the observed words w0, ... , νν^ are (exactly) the context i of position p in document a. To simplify computation, two assumptions are made: assume that position within a context is not important, and that the presence of each word within a context is independent of the presence of the other words. These assumptions lead to: wew0,...,wi-1
b. Dictionary
[00170] A dictionary D = {dQ, ... , dfc--1} is defined as a set of k words. c. Probability
[00171] Given a dictionary D and a set of m context functions q, it is desirable to compute:
P(e (a, p) £ D \ c°° (a, p), ... , c^"1 (a, p))
which is the probability that the word at position p in document a is in dictionary D, given that words o0, ... , om- were observed in context 0, ... ,m— 1. To simplify notation, cr is used as a short form for cr°r (a, p) .
[00172] Naive Bayes: Using the Naive Bayes assumption that the contexts are independent and the words within the context are independent, one can write:
P(e(a,p) = KP(cQ, c^ e^p) £ D)P(e(a,p) £ D)
Figure imgf000046_0001
where:
Ρ(φ(α,ρ) E D) * ]^[ P(C[ w(a,p)|e(a,p) £ D)
wew0,...,wi-1
where or = w0, ... , w^. The result is:
Figure imgf000046_0002
where δ (predicate) = 1 if predicate is true and 0 otherwise.
[00173] The counts can be pre-computed:
CountWordContext(J,i) = ^ ^ 5(w;- £ ^(α,ρ) and e(a,p) E D)
aeTrainSet peposition in a
CountDict ^ 5(e(a,p) ED)
aeTrainSeett ppeeppoossiittiioonn iinn aa
SumPosition
aeTrainSet peposition in a
which then allows the efficient computation:
CountWordContext , i)
CountDict
Figure imgf000046_0003
CountDict
P(e(o,p) GD)
SumPosition
This computation is 0(∑i|5[|) where is context i's size.
[00174] To compute K, one also needs to evaluate:
P(e(o,p) g D|c„, -,<½_!) = tfP(e0 cm\e(a,p) g 0)P(e(a,p) g D) Again, using Na'ive Bayes:
Figure imgf000047_0001
where:
Ρ( (α,ν) t D) « ]^[ P(C[ w(a,p)|e(a,p) £ D) where or = wQ, ... , w^. The result is:
Figure imgf000047_0002
[00175] The counts can be pre-computed:
CountWordContextAll j,i) = ^ ^ 5(w;- £ e^a, p) )
asTrainSet psposition in a
CountWordConte
Figure imgf000047_0003
asTranSet pspos ton n a
— ^ ^ 5(w £ e^a, ) and e(a,p) £ D) asTrainSet psposition in a
= CountWordContextAll(j,i)
— CountWordContext(j , i)
[00176] Note that the quantity CountWordContextAll(J,V) is independent of the dictionary. This means that CountWordContextNot(j , V) does not actually require a table for this dictionary (it can be computed from CountWordContext(j, i) on the fly).
CountDictNot = ^ ^ 5(e(a, ) ί D) = SumPosition— CountDict asTrainSet psposition in a
which then allows the efficient computation:
CountWordContextNot(j, i)
SumPosition— CountDict
Figure imgf000047_0004
SumPosition— CountDict
P(e(o,p) £ D) =
SumPosition
K
Figure imgf000047_0005
£ D)P(e(a,p) £ D) and from that, one can compute: P(e(a,p) £ D\c0, ...,cm_!) =
P(cp cm_1\e(a,p)eD)P(e(ja,p)eD)
P 0 cm_1\e{a,p)eD)P{e{a,p)eD)+p c0, ... , ^.^(a, p) g D)p(e(a,p)£D) ' i) Probability at the dictionary word level
[00177] It may be desirable to compute the probability that a word is a given word of the dictionary given context:
Figure imgf000048_0001
where wk is a specific word in the dictionary.
P(< (a,p)|e(a,p) = wfc)
_∑aeTrainSet∑pepositioningS(w £ ei(a>P) an& e( P) = Wfc)
∑aeTrainSet∑peposition in a S(e(a,p) = wfc)
where 5{predicate) = 1 if predicate is true and 0 otherwise.
[00178] The counts can be pre-computed:
CountWordContextK(k,j, V)
= ^ ^ 5(Wj E et a,p) and e(a,p) = wk)
aeTrainSet peposition in a
CountK(k) = ^ ^ 5(e(a,p) = wk)
aeTrainS eett ppeeppoossiittiioonn iinn aa
SumPosition =
aeTrainSet peposition in a
which then allows the efficient computation:
CountWordContextK(k,j, V)
CountK(k)
Figure imgf000048_0002
Count K(k)
P{e{a,p) = wk) =
SumPosition
P(e(o,p) =wk\c0,...,cm_1) = KkP(c0, c^JeC^p) = wk)P(e(_a,p) =wk)
[00179] Computing K also includes evaluating:
P(e(o,p)≠wk\c0,...,cm_1) = KkP(c0, ...,cm\e(a,p)≠ wk)P{e(a,p)≠wk) [00180] Again, using Naive Bayes:
P(c0, ,.,,cm\e(a,p)≠ wk) « ]~^Ρ(^| e{a,p)≠ wk)
i
where: Ρ{φ{α,ρ)≠ Wfc) « ]^[ P(C[ w(a,p)|e(a,p)≠ wk)
wew0,...,wi-1
where or = wQ, ... , w^. The result is:
P(< (a,p)|e(a,p)≠ wfc)
∑aeTrainSet∑peposition in a 5(e(a,p)≠ fc)
[00181] For this, the following quantities are needed:
CountWordConte
Figure imgf000049_0001
asTranSet pspos ton n a
— ^ ^ 5(w £ βέ(α, ) and e(a, ) = wk)
asTrainSet psposition in a
= CountWordContextAll(J,i)
— CountWordContextK(k,j,i)
CountKNotQi) = ^ ^ 5(e(a,p)≠ wk)
asTrainSet psposition in a
= SumPosition— CountK(k)
[00182] Note that the quantity CountWordContextAll(J,V) is independent of the dictionary. This means that CountWordContextKNot(k,j, i) does not actually require a table for this dictionary (it can be computed from CountWordContextK(k,j,i) on the fly). The following computation can then be performed efficiently:
CountWordContextKNot(k,j, i)
SumPosition— CountK(k)
Figure imgf000049_0002
SumPosition— CountK k)
P(e(o,p)≠ Wfc) :
SumPosition
=
P(c0, ...,(½_! |e(a,p) = wfc)P(e(o,p) = wfc) + P(c„, cm-i|e(o,p)≠ wfc)P(e(o,p)≠ wfc) ii) Probability with word left out
[00183] It may be desirable to compute the probability that a word is in a dictionary minus word wk given context:
P(e(a,p) £ D - {wk}\c° a,p), ..., where wk is a specific word in the dictionary. Note that, if e(a, p) = wk, the probability above reflects the probability of all the other words in the dictionary. For instance, in the sentence "President Ford was the 38th president of United States," the probability above will have been trained with all the words in the dictionary that are different from "Ford." If the dictionary is {"Honda", "Ford", "Toyota"}, the probability would be very low since there are not many "President Honda" or "President Toyota" instances. So the probability would correctly predict that "Ford" in the sentence is not a car brand.
P(cf(a,p)\e(a,p) E D - {wk})
_∑aeTrainSet∑pepositioninaS w £ ^(α,ρ) and e{a,p) E D - {wfc})
∑a≡TrainSet∑p≡positionina^ieia>P^ ^ D ~ { fc}) where δ (predicate) = 1 if predicate is true and 0 otherwise.
[00184] The counts can be pre-computed:
CountWordContextDictMinusK(k,j, i)
= CountWordContext , V)— CountWordContextK(k,j, V) CountDictMinusK(k) = CountDict— Count K(k) which then allows the efficient computation:
P(c0, c™..! |e(a,p) ED— {wk})
CountWordContextDictMinusK(k,j, i)
CountDict— CountK k)
Figure imgf000050_0001
CountDict— Count K(k)
P(e(a,p) ED-{Wk )
SumPosition
P(e(a,p) ED— {wfc}|c0, ...,cm_i)
= KkP(c0, ... ,
Figure imgf000050_0002
£ D -{wk})P(e(a,p) E D - {wfc})
[00185] Computing K also requires evaluating:
P(e(a,p) g D - {wk}\c0, ...,cm_ = KkP(c0, ...,cm\e(a,p) g D - {wk})P(e(_a,p)
£ D - { fc})
[00186] Again, using Na'ive Bayes:
Figure imgf000050_0003
where:
Ρ(φ(α,ρ) g D— {wk}) * [ P(cf(a,p)\e(a,p) g D— {wk})
WEW0,
where or = wQ, ... , w^. The result is: P(c?(a, p) \e(a, p) (£ D - {wk})
_∑aeTrainSet∑peposition in a S Wj £
Figure imgf000051_0001
and e (a, p) g D - {wfc})
∑aeTrainSet∑peposition in a S(e(a, p) g D - {wfc})
[00187] For this, the following quantities are needed:
CountWordContextDictMinusKNot , j, i)
= CountWordContextAll(J, i)
— CountWordContextDictMinusK(k,j, i)
CountDictMinusKNotQc) = ^ ^ 5(e(a, p) g D - {wfc})
aeTrainSet peposition in a
= SumPosition— CountDictMinusK(k)
[00188] Note that the quantity CountWordContextAll(J, V) is independent of the
dictionary. This means that CountWordContextDictMinusKNot(k,j, i) does not
actually require a table for this dictionary (it can be computed from
CountWordContextK(k,j, V) on the fly). The following computation can then be
performed efficiently:
P(c0, ... , (½_! |e(a, p) g D - {wfc})
CountWordContextDictMinusKNot(k,j, V)
SumPosition— CountDictMinusK (k)
Figure imgf000051_0002
SumPosition— CountDictMinusK (k)
P(e(a, p) D - {wk})
SumPosition
K, =
P(c0,
Figure imgf000051_0003
g D - {wfc})P(e(a
4. Feature Completion
[00189] Feature Completion is a more generalized approach to Dictionary Smoothing.
Learning techniques to automatically classify documents infer a classifier from a set of
labeled training instances. The inferred classifier is a function, which takes a set of input
features, i.e., measurements that describe the document, and outputs a class label. One can
mainly improve the accuracy of a classifier following two alternative paths, either by
acquiring more labeled training instances, or by relying on better features. Feature
completion is directed toward the second approach and aims at facilitating the design of
better features. [00190] A feature is a function that maps the raw representation of the document (e.g., sequence of characters for text, map of pixels for images...) to an intermediate representation that the classifier relies on (e.g., the number of occurrences of a given word or the presence of a specific color in the image). Most features are built from a simple human intuition about the types of measurements that a classifier could rely on (e.g., a classifier that detects faces in images could use the presence of skin color as a feature). However, the conversion of an intuition to a function that maps the document representation is a complex, imperfect task.
[00191] Feature completion facilitates this conversion process. It takes as input the initial feature given by the human and provides a complementary feature that complements the first one, so that the combination of both features is closer to the initial intuited measurement. For that purpose, it relies on a large dataset of unlabeled documents. The raw representation of the unlabeled documents is divided into the part that the initial feature uses (representation A) and the rest (representation B). Given this set of paired representations on the unlabeled set, a learning algorithm is applied to infer a function that takes representation B and predicts the output of the initial feature on part A of the same document. This function is a complementary feature since it behaves similarly to the initial feature but relies on the complementary part of the raw representation (i.e., representation B). The combination of the initial feature and the complementary feature may be closer to the initial intuition since it uses the remainder of the document that the initial feature implementation did not manage to exploit. The combination of the two features is also more robust to noise since corruptions are unlikely to affect representation A and representation B in the same way.
[00192] One should note that the classifier determines how to combine the initial feature and its complementary counterpart. This means that the learning algorithm determines for the user whether a complementary feature should have little influence (since the initial feature was already high quality) or more influence (since the initial feature was poorer quality).
[00193] In one aspect, a system and method are provided to build complementary features. Each complementary feature is built from an initial feature and a large set of unlabeled data. A complementary feature is a function that takes as input the part of the raw representation the initial feature is not using. It is built by trying to predict the output of the initial feature from this complementary representation over the unlabeled data. [00194] In another aspect, the system and method may include one or more additional features, such as where the initial feature measures the presence of a disjunction of words or n-grams (sequence of words) at each position in a text stream, while the complementary feature input consists of a window of text around the considered position in which the center words have been removed; where the initial feature is a regular expression operating over strings to predict matching position in text, while the complementary feature input consists of a window of text around the considered position in which the center words have been removed; or where the initial feature measures the presence of a disjunction of short nucleotide sequences at each position in a large nucleotide sequence (e.g., DNA), while the complementary feature input consists of a window of few nucleotides around the considered position in which the center nucleotides have been removed.
[00195] The following discussion describes exemplary algorithms for feature completion. Feature completion starts with an initial feature and a large unlabeled dataset. A complementary feature is built from these inputs. Once built, this complementary feature can then be used in conjunction with the initial feature in a supervised learning setting, a. Definitions
• A dataset is a set of items. For example, a data set could be a collection of web pages, a collection of queries, a collection of word documents, a collection of molecules, a collection of genes, etc. Each item is represented by its raw representation. This representation is a set of measurements made on the item. The measurements can be of fixed length, such as the number of links pointing to web page, or of variable lengths such as a list of tokens representing each word, with possible annotations (e.g., bold, italic, table position, metadata, etc). The purpose of the raw representation is to capture all the information relative to an item into a computer readable form, without discerning a priori which information is relevant or irrelevant. A feature representation is a function of the raw representation, which captures the information that is relevant to a machine learning algorithm for performing a task on the item, such as classification, extraction, regression, ranking, and so forth. The feature representation typically discards a lot of information from the raw representation because the raw representation space is far too vast for a machine-learning algorithm to perform adequately with a small number of training examples and finite computational time.
• The initial feature representation f is the feature representation that is started with. It takes part of the raw representation of an item and computes a value or a vector of values. An example of value could be the length of an item, the number of times a particular sub-component is present in an item, etc. A vector value could be the result of sliding a window over the item and computing a function over that window. For instance, for a window of text, the initial feature could be o a binary value representing whether any word from a given list appears at the center of the window,
o a binary value representing the presence or absence of a verb in the window,
o a binary value representing the presence or absence of a noun followed by an adjective,
o an integer feature counting the number of occurrences of a given word in the window, etc.
• A complementary feature g is also a feature representation. It takes a different part of the raw representation of an item and predicts a value or a vector of values. It is built relying on the algorithm defined in the next section.
• This discussion distinguishes two parts in the raw representation of an item.
Representation A refers to the part the initial feature uses. Representation B refers to the part the complementary feature uses. Note that both parts may or may not overlap.
• A supervised learning algorithm takes a set of input/output pairs and predicts a function that aims at predicting the output given the input.
b. Algorithms to Build a Complementary Feature
i) Generic Algorithm BuildComplementary
[00196] This algorithm computes an additional feature function g. It uses the dataset D and the function / to generate (input, targets) pairs as training examples for g. It then uses a training algorithm to train g. The result is a new feature function g, which can then be used to complement /.
• Input: an initial feature f, a dataset D
• Output: a complementary feature g • Algorithm
o Initialize a complementary feature training set P to the empty set o For each item i in D
■ Extract ai (representation A for i) and
■ Compute the output of the initial feature f(ai)
■ Extract bi (representation B for i)
■ Add (bi, f(¾)) to P. This (input, target) pair is a training example for function g
o g = SupervisedLearningAlgorithm(P)
o Return g
[00197] If the features are computed on sliding windows, the algorithm can be modified as this:
• Input: an initial feature f, a dataset D
• Output: a complementary feature g
• Algorithm
o Initialize a complementary feature training set P to the empty set o For each item i in D
■ For each position p in item
• Extract ai,P (representation A for i in initial window indexed by p) and
• Compute the output of the initial feature f(ai,P)
• Extract bi,P (representation B for i in context window indexed by p)
• Add (bi,P, f(ai,P)) to P. This (input, target) pair is a training example for function g
o g = SupervisedLearningAlgorithm(P)
o Return g
ii) Specialization for the Binary Case
[00198] Assume that f is a binary feature and representation B is a set of n binary measurements. This means that for any item i, f(ai) is either 0 or 1, while bi can be denoted as a vector (bii, . . . , bin) in which each bij is 0 or 1. Consider a class of supervised learning algorithms that relies only on the following counts from P, N(j, α, β), which denotes the number of pairs (bi, f(ai)) in P such that f(¾) = a and bij = β. In this case, the complementary feature building algorithm can be rewritten as
• Input: an initial feature f, a dataset D
• Output: a complementary feature g
• Algorithm
o Initialize N(j, α, β) to zero for j = l ..n, a= 0..1 , β = 0..1
o For each item i in D
■ Extract ai (representation A for i) and
■ Predict the output of the initial feature f(ai)
■ Extract bi (representation B for i)
■ Increment N(j, f(¾), bij) for j = l ..n
o g = SupervisedLearningAlgorithm(N)
o Return g
c. Complementary Features for Classification
[00199] Classification as used herein is the task of predicting a class label given an input item. For that purpose, use is made of a supervised learning algorithm, which can automatically infer a function that maps an input feature representation to a class label from a set of labeled items, i.e., items for which the correct class has been identified by a human labeler. A label item (x,y) is denoted, where x denotes its raw representation x and y denotes its label.
[00200] The following algorithm takes a set of labeled items, an unlabeled dataset and a set of initial features fi ...fn. It complements each feature and learns a classifier that relies both on the initial feature and its complementary feature.
• Input: a set of initial features fi ...fn, a set of labeled items L, an unlabeled dataset U
• Output: a set of complementary features gi . ..gn, a classifier C relying on both
Figure imgf000056_0001
• Algorithm
o For each initial feature fi,
■ define its complementary from the unlabeled data
gi = BuildComplementary(fi, U)
o Initialize pair set P to the empty set
o For each labeled item (x,y) in L, ■ compute initial features and its complementary features
V(x) = fl(x),... ,fn(x), gl(x).. . gn(x)
■ Add (v(x), y) to P
o C = SupervisedLearningAlgorithm(P)
o Return gi . . . gn and C
As an example, consider the following collection of documents in Table 4
Document ID Content
0 "cut off date is May 18 2012";
1 "Posted Thursday , May 24 , 2012 at 10";
2 "Published on February 18 2001";
3 "Customers Viewing This Page May Be Interested in";
4 "Posted Thursday , February 24 2012 at 10";
5 "He bought 24 candles";
6 "May I suggest that you read";
7 "Beatles - Let It Be - Lyrics"
Table 4
[00202] Assume the initial feature is: Word belongs to the set {"February", "May"} . The concept that the initial feature is trying to capture is the concept of Month. Unfortunately, it will not work well in documents 3 and 6 because the feature will fire even though those particular 2 instances of "May" are not referring to months. Any learning algorithm that depends on the initial feature will therefore be handicapped by the feature's "misfiring."
[00203] To compensate for this problem, a simple complementary feature may be built. Please refer to the Generic algorithm "BuildComplementary" described above, regarding windows. Formally, the initial representation ai p is a fixed length window of length one (single word) for item i centered on position p. The second representation bi p is also a fixed length window of length one, but it is centered on the word at position p+1. This window is referred to herein as the "context" window.
[00204] In this example, the complementary feature g is trying to better predict the concept of month. To build this feature, a very simple Bayesian algorithm is used as the learning algorithm to compute g. The function g is defined as:
g w) ≡ P(f(word at p) = l \word at (p + 1) is w) where the word w is read from position p + 1 where g is evaluated. In this case, it helps to think of the representation bi p as being around position p.
[00205] Note that other representations could be used, rather than "word at position p +
1" as input for g, and any other machine-learning algorithm could be used to train g to
mimic the values of /. In this case, a Bayesian model is used because a closed form
version of g can be given and demystify the process by giving an explicit machine- learning algorithm. Using Bayes' rule, one can write:
g(w) = P word in Dict\ following word is w)
P( ollowing word is w\word in Dict)P(word in Diet)
P (following word is w)
[00206] As an example, g will be computed for the second document at position 3 (w =
6 1
"24"). Looking at the corpus, one can infer: P(word in Diet) =— = - because there are
54 words in the corpus and 6 of these are in the dictionary. For the second instance of
May (in document 1),
2 1
P(f ollowing word is "2A" \word in Diet) =— =—
6 3
because there are six instances of the word in the dictionary and in two of these instances, the following word is "24." Computing P (following word is X) is done by realizing
that:
P(word in Dict\f ollowing word is X) + P(word not in Dict\f ollowing word is X)
= 1
[00207] This leads to
P(f ollowing word is "24". )
= P(f ollowing word is "24". \word in Dict)P(word in Diet)
+P(f ollowing word is "24". \word not in Dict)P(word not in Diet) or
P(f ollowing word is "24". ) = -- +—- =—
y a J 3 9 48 9 18
And finally:
P(word in Dict\f ollowing word is X) = ~~ = ^
[00208] If this is done for all the instances, the result is:
Document 0: P("May" in Dict| following word is "18") = 1.0
Document 1 : P("May"in Dict| following word is "24". ) = 0.6666
Document 2: P("February" in Dict| following word is "18") = 1.0 Document 3: P("May"in Dict| following word is "Be") = 0.5
Document 4: P("February"in Dict| following word is "24". ) = 0.6666
Document 5: P("May"in Dict| following word is "I") = 1.0
[00209] One can see that this complementary feature is better because if it uses a threshold of 0.6, it will detect that May in document 3 is a verb and not a month. But it is not perfect because it fails to detect that May in document 5 is also a verb rather than a month.
[00210] Below is an example where a more complex context function was computed on a large corpus of documents (500,000 web pages). The primary function looks at one word and is one if word belongs to ("January", "February" ..., "December") and zero otherwise. The complementary feature looks at the two words before and the two words after and uses Naive Bayes to compute the probability of being in the dictionary. For this, a variant of the algorithm above is used, which herein is referred to as "Leave One Out." In this version, the function g used on a particular word is trained on all the instances of the data set except the instances that are defined by that word.
[00211] This is useful because when a word has a double meaning (e.g., like May, which can be a month or a verb), it may be trained only with instances that exclude its own double meaning. The double meaning of May could potentially pollute the other months, but that is often not a problem because the context for double meaning for different cases on which / = 1 are often not correlated. For instance if g (February, . ) is trained with a set that excludes all instances of February but includes all the other months including May, the bad cases like "May I help you?" will do little damage to the February model because the context "I" is quite unlikely for February ("February I help you?").
[00212] The listing in Table 5 below shows 100 instance examples taken at random from the data set, and sorted by the value of complementary feature g. The value is shown in the column with heading "Prob." The following 4 columns are the "evidence" at position -2, -1, +1 +2 (relative to May being at position 0). Each evidence can be computed as:
Evidence (k)
P(word at position p + k\word at position p is in (diet - May)) P(word at position p + k\word at position p is not in diet - May))
[00213] The following column Label is the "concept" value or whether the particular occurrence is indeed a month. This value is computed by hand just for the purpose of evaluation. Inspection of the list in Table 5 shows that initial feature would produce 21% error rate. In contrast, the complementary feature using a threshold of p=0.0003 would only have a 2% error rate.
# Doc# pos Prob #0 #1 #2 #3 Label - -gram
2 334 3 .3330 1. ,22 1 .21 1. .65 1. .26 0 Gra s Customers Viewing This Page May 8e Interested in These
Sponsored
1 632 418 0 .8000 1. .22 1 .21 1. .65 1. .26 0 99 Customers Viewing This Page May Be Interested in These
Sponsored
2 96 231 0 .3083 1, 15 1 ,39 1. ,44 1. ,26 0 the choice below . You May Also Meed 1 / 2
3 426 29 0 ,3003 1. .18 1 .39 1. .26 1. .38 3 Prequaiify Grants for Women You May- Qualify for Grants to Earn
4 361 197 3 .3ββθ I 1'· 1 .24 1. .50 1. .14 0 narrow your search results later May We Suggest These Cool
Products
5 364 1256 3 ,3003 1. .15 1 .19 1. .99 1. .09 3 real self again . ,! May- be he was postman ultra
6 478 812 3 .3ββθ 1. ,10 1 .39 1. .36 1. .12 0 4 ) by Taboola You May Like Why Stylists Hate
Boxed
7 931 1322 3 ,3003 1. .08 1 .32 1. .09 1. .33 3 N3 ' S Cape May- Wyckoff ,
8 550 284 3 .3880 1, .05 1 .19 1. .48 1. .31 0 number of times : " May 1 suggest that you read o 586 38 0 .3083 1, 15 1 ,39 1. ,26 1. ,16 0 Go To School . You May Qualify For Grants To Start
1Θ 799 213 3 ,3003 8. .72 1 .13 1. .79 1. .20 3 ( Estimated ) * May- not reflect current interest rates
11 848 162 0 .3000 .72 1 .13 1. .79 1. .20 3 : ( Estimated ) * May not reflect current interest rates
12 336 453 3 .0000 0, .85 1 39 1. .44 1. .11 0 Bags when Flying Comments You May Also Like How to Get
13 1Θ38 161 0 .3000 0. .72 1 .39 1. .44 1. .11 0 ( 2 min ) You May- Also Like Comments Hulu
Plus
14 782 1587 3 .0000 1, .10 0 .53 1. .99 1. .17 0 - 3an 22 , 2012 May be beneficial . . .
15 816 2134 0 .3000 0. .93 1 .31 1. .45 1. .25 0 ihanna In Court losn Smith May- Become Free Agent 53 Cent
16 1325 359 0 ,8330 1. .10 1 .31 1. .50 0. .98 1 - $ 420 , 033 May . 28 , 23Θ4 4944
17 3Θ0 951 3 .3880 0, . 7 0 .99 1. .23 1. .41 0 Throat Strep Flu Vaccines May Protect the Heart Too
Health
18 616 395 3 ,8331 1. .37 1 .14 1. .11 1. .04 0 Qwote Pitbull Bedroom ( David May Mix ) ( Off |
19 1311 136 3 .3331 1, .16 1 ,31 1 ,89 1 ,24 0 Press Review : * Mathilda May in French Magazine f
2Θ 145 117 0 .3002 1. .15 .79 1. .26 1. .16 0 To School Online . Moms May Qualify For Grants To Start
21 5Θ2 497 0 ,8334 J 15 1 .37 1. .09 0. .89 1 5 7589 Current conducting system May , 1993 Lettenmayer 439 /
22 1335 296 3 .8335 0, 90 0 ,73 1 ,42 1 ,28 1 T'anaka visited Beijing in May to welcome its 1000th ember
23 794 276 0 ,8335 1. .38 0 .92 1. .14 1. .02 1 T May Jul 1 2 3
24 4Θ4 599 3 .3339 1, 42 1 ,27 3 .71 0 .75 1 . Caught on the river May 2012 11 : 22
25 429 1332 0 .8012 0. .79 .93 1. .16 1. .17 1 99 2mm Genuine Birthstone - May Emerald Yellow Gold Nose
Bone
26 947 1278 3 .0344 0, .94 0 ,61 1 ,34 0 ,58 0 Makete Katsu ( Japan ) May Queen ( Korean ) Miss
27 3 174 0 .0060 1. .35 .84 3. .37 1. .42 1 Article Index Akashadoothu : 09 May 2012 current position Watch
Aakashadoothu
28 659 134 3 .0062 1, 42 0 ,96 3 ,51 1 ,28 1 World and Seating the Odds May 20Θ6 Views ; 23 j
29 841 40 0 .0080 1. .36 1 .31 3. .64 0. .28 1 & Health Culture Change Language May 10 , 2012 , 4
33 318 1311 3 .0132 0. .91 0 .61 I 3'- 0. .88 1 ( May ' 11 ) May ' 11 animal control 3
31 533 84 3 .0124 1, .16 1 ,11 3 ,43 0 ,98 1 - - - Popular Venues May 20Θ8 The River Ranch -
32 533 40 0 .0167 1. .18 .77 3. .64 1. .20 1 : 01 AM - 24 May 12 ■ Embed this Tweet
33 772 546 3 .8186 I 3~. 1 .36 0. .54 0. .28 1 is a Date object for May 28 , 2007 d =
34 499 51 0 .3289 1, 15 0 .47 1. ,12 1. ,03 1 Br 3 Dermatol , 2610 May ; 162 ( 5 )
35 192 375 0 .8255 0. .84 .64 1. .49 1. .06 1 album Compass out 17th 18th May on Warp Records warp net
36 821 329 3 .8283 1. .19 1 .12 0. .34 0. .87 1 ( Locks Received ¾ Installed May 2011 - Yoda ) Also
37 335 1252 0 .3373 0, 97 1 ,84 ,53 1. .24 1 Road . Roth classes end May 27 , Beginners will attend
38 375 1377 3 ,3434 8. .95 8 .78 8. .79 1. .15 1 McDade 18 3ul 1913 15 May 1976 Davis , Noah Vester
39 61 512 3 .8454 1. .19 0 .92 0. .54 1. .0» 1 The Shiite pilgrims were abducted May 22 after crossing into
Syria
48 1331 190 3 ,3461 1. .12 8 .73 8. .37 1. .23 1 studies at Bradley University in May 2012 and am always looking
41 763 359 3 .8466 1. .30 0 .72 0. .73 0. .87 1 March . Summer Rates : May 1 - November 14 ;
42 393 1223 0 .3583 1, 87 0 ,63 ,72 1. .24 1 - 25 . Epub 2006 May 4 . ClinicalTriais . gov
43 86 135 3 ,3525 1. .19 1 .17 8. .54 8. .28 1 contract Vigneault ' s contract May 23 } 2012 7 i
44 694 275 3 .8769 1, .19 1 .11 0. .54 0. .28 1 infringing Oracle * s patents May 23 , 2012 1 :
45 613 1678 0 .1129 1, 13 0 ,51 ,59 1. .24 1 Baba ' s film on May 13 , Those of us
46 314 87 3 ,1263 1. .31 8 .91 8. .37 1. .01 1 Cwpan Ceredgion Fixtures Results 7 May 2012 Final New Quay 3
47 438 1156 3 .1341 1, .10 1 .82 0. .59 0. .28 1 Helpful Customer Reviews Adult Briefs May IS , 2012 By Dave
48 656 60 0 .1345 1. .00 .69 0. .47 1. .12 1 brands Essay by swasnukia , May 2007 download word file ,
49 372 430 0 ,1493 8. .74 1 .31 8. .37 1. .24 1 the last update on 3 May 2012 , [ State of
53 152 381 3 .1581 1, .02 1 .87 0. .59 0. .28 1 Angeles . CA Robert Pattinson May 13 } 1986 London ,
51 13 1361 0 .1752 1. .12 3 .51 0. .72 0. .75 1 0 Hot - Juan on May 4 2012 # growreaifood -
52 172 67 0 ,1323 1. .81 1 .33 8. .53 8. .28 1 Stafford from his hospital bed May 29th , 2012 at 11
53 419 3 3 .2125 0, .83 0 .72 0. .63 1. .13 1 ..Communicator Archives : May 2002 Choose another issue
54 347 283 3 ,2152 1. .31 1 .34 0. .59 0. .28 1 of E sa Margareta Sibirien 1736 May- 18 , 1736 Age 18
55 217 432 3 .2351 0, .83 1 .33 0. .59 0. .28 1 the survey cutoff date was May 18 , meaning that the
56 299 651 0 .2386 0. .83 .61 0. .71 0. .93 1 ) June ( 33 ) May- ( 15 ) April (
57 7 459 0 ,2790 1. .17 0 .77 0. .37 0. .90 1 Section A Section A 33 May 2312 S M T
58 939 39 3 .2984 1, 35 0 ,76 0 ,37 1 ,21 1 robotic library Updated : 21 May 2813 j 19 comments Chri:
59 233 63 0 .3124 1. .18 .78 0. .79 0. .28 1 . m . , updated May- 2 , '. 2011 at 11
63 588 581 0 ,3167 1. .33 0 .92 0. .64 0. .28 1 life : D Dominic Watson May 12 , 2010 at 6
61 422 114 3 .3230 1, 13 0 ,77 0 ,37 0 ,87 1 communities . Kolkata -- 24 May 2812 - Cargili re -
62 273 1969 0 .3967 1. .13 .83 0. .37 0. .92 1 hit - Wed , 02 May- 20 2 16 : 25 :
63 826 53 0 ,4446 1. .18 0 .70 0. .64 0. .31 1 : 45 PM - 31 May 12 la TweetDeck · Embe:
64 333 1001 3 .5139 1, .15 0 ,41 0 .71 0 ,98 1 Gift twenty two . <- May ( 2S ) » April
65 1033 534 0 .5152 0. .85 .98 0. .37 0. .87 1 Master 12 Comments 10 May- 2012 - 31 : 44
66 573 193 0 ,5254 1. .35 0 .82 0. .43 0. .87 1 AIOS Article date : 31 May 2008 - 5 : 00
67 758 1734 3 .6657 1, .15 0 ,41 0 .71 0 ,89 1 Formulas . . . <- May ( 9 ) April
68 58 1 7 0 .7770 1. .35 .76 0. .37 0. .80 1 . . published : 21 May 2012 Author :
Magnolia3Scooby 4
69 9 1559 3 .7961 0, .95 0 ,86 0 ,59 0 ,28 1 ncunced Hero Complex Film Festival Mav IS , 19 , 23th
73 726 563 0 .8236 0. .79 .73 0. .37 1. .15 1 . Flag as inappropriate 27 May 2010 Georgia commented ; this
71 198 15 3 .8330 0, .82 0 ,96 0 ,59 0 ,28 1 Punk editor rating release date Mav 16 , 1995 duration 31
72 667 140 0 .8689 0. .86 .69 0. .55 0. .28 1 12 : 34 AM , May- 24 , 2312 comments
73 684 1733 3 .8874 1. .32 0 .61 0. .37 0. .58 1 3une 2013 ( 564 ) May 2010 ( 658 ) April
Figure imgf000061_0001
Figure imgf000061_0002
Table 5
V. Segmentation and Schematization
A. Segments
[00214] By construction, the bag-of-words representation ignores all relationships between words. This may be a limitation because ordering and grouping information can be valuable. For instance, decomposing a forum web page into a sequence of individual posts could be useful for finding posts that compare two products. In the bag-of-words representation, one would get a hit every time two posts mentioning the two products appear in the same page. Decomposing a schema into individual fields allows field- targeted search and pivoting. This could be useful for finding recipes that have less than 500 calories per serving and a cooking time under 20 minutes.
[00215] To enable these capabilities, assume that each item consists of an ordered sequence of tokens. This token-based representation is much richer than bag-of-words. The tokens' positions induce an ordering and a proximity metric between tokens. The distance between two tokens is the absolute difference between their positions. (In this section, a one-dimensional topology is assumed for simplicity. A two-dimensional topology is possible but more complicated (segments are replaced by rectangles.)) A segment is defined as a pair (b, e) of positions in the document. The first position b (for begin) points to the first token of the segment. The second position e (for end) points to the first token outside the segment. Each segment characterizes a group of adjacent tokens inside the document. A document segmentation is a collection (s0, ... , sfc--1) of k disjoint segments. More formally, the set of possible segmentations of a document of n tokens is defined by:
S = [s : s = (s0, ... , Sfc-i) : k≤ n, Vi E 0. . k— 1, s£ = (pi, ei) · 0 < b0, bt < eit et ≤ bi+1, efc_! < n}
[00216] A feature fj (i, d) is a vector function of the document d, defined over each of the token position i. The featurization of the document is defined as f(d) = (Jo (■ > d), ... , -l (■ , d)), where / is the number of individual features. Note that the feature value at position i may depend on the whole document. This definition of feature is general enough to encompass global features (constant over all tokens), token features (features whose value at position i only depend on the token at that position), or trellis (which will be introduced later in this section). A segment classifier h is a function that computes a probability:
h: d, s, w→ h(f(d), s, w)
where d is the original data, f(d) is a featurization of the token data, s is a segmentation over the tokens, and w is a trainable parameter vector. Ideally, the segment classifier should verify: h(f(d), s, w) = 1
s≡S
[00217] FIG. 9 illustrates an exemplary segmentation 900 of a street address. The top part of FIG. 9 is a visualization of the data 910 (a portion of a web page). Below that is a token representation 912 of the same data, with a street address segmentation 914 underneath: s=((4,15),(21,34),(40,53)).
[00218] The street address segmentation contains 3 segments 914 labeled as "street address" (however, the third segment is not shown because of space constraints on the page). A restaurant name segmentation would have returned ((0,3), (17,20), (36,39)). Ideally a street address segment classifier would return h(f(d), s, w) = 1 for s = (4,15), (21,34), (40,53)) and 0 for any other value of s. This would be the target signal, or segment label.
B. Modularity and Trellis
[00219] Schemas have a recursive structure. A schema's field can itself be a schema. For example, a StreetAddress schema can be made out of 5 sub-schemas:
• StreetAddress
o Street O City
o State
o Zip code
o Country
[00220] As defined herein, the modularity constraint is the ability to build segmenters independently of the context in which they can be used. The benefit of modularity is that once a segmenter is built, it can be used as a feature for a higher level segmenter in a bottom fashion (similar to the features of a classifier). As described earlier, features are constrained to be immutable. This implies that once a segmenter is built, it will not be retrained inside a higher level segmenter to take advantage of contextual information. This at first appears to be a severe limitation. For instance, a street extractor would do a much better job if it knew about context. Is "Smith Lane, 1234" a street address or a name? If a lower level segmenter decides what is a street and what isn't, the higher level address segmenter is not likely to perform well.
[00221] Trellis: To circumvent this problem, a constraint is imposed that the segmenter return not a segmentation, but a trellis. A trellis is a transition graph between the states of each token. FIG. 10 illustrates a trellis representation 1000 of a segmenter 1024. For a given entity extractor, each token 1010 has 3 states: Junk 1012 (entity not detected), Begin 1014 (first token of entity), and Continue 1016 (subsequent tokens 1010 of entity). The edges 1018 are the transition probability from one token 1010 to the next. A segmentation is the most likely path from the beginning of the document to the end of the document. The transition probabilities are a convolution function over a window of token features. Let es s £ denotes the transition probability between the state s1 of token i and the state s2 of token i + 1. Then
eSl,s2,i = g (f(.d) i, wSl>S2)
where g is a fixed trainable function, f(d) i is a token featurization window centered on i, and s 5 is a set of trainable parameters for each transition S-L^ . AS described above, the begin state 1014 and continue state 1016 are states where the segment has been detected, and the state transition edges 1018 are functions of the token features 1020 that compute the probability of a transition. In absence of other constraints, the segmentation is the optimal transition path 1022 (heavy solid line).
[00222] An advantage of the trellis representation is that it allows a low level segmenter to communicate to a higher level segmenter the probability of every possible segmentation. In the absence of other constraints, the default segmentation is the optimal path to traverse the trellis. This can be computed in 0(n) steps using dynamic programming. When a low level segmentation is used by a higher level segmenter, the higher level segmenter can output its segmentation, and then find the optimal lower level segmentation by finding the optimal transition path subject to constraints. For instance, for an address segmenter, the sub-segments (street, city, Zip code, state, and country) cannot cross the address boundaries (parent constraint) and a given token can only belong to one of the sub-segments (sibling constraint). In other words, the sub-segmenters do not make the final decisions for their own segment. They provide a probability for each possible segmentation for the level above where the decision is made. Computing the high level segmentation is a bottom up process. It is followed by a field filling pass (or back- segmentation) where new segmentation at each level are computed using the current trellis and constraints from parents and siblings.
[00223] For each sub-segmenter, the total number of possible segmentations and their corresponding probability is 0(2n) for n tokens. Fortunately, the trellis representation carries all that information in 0(ri) space. To compute the probability of a particular segmentation from the trellis, one can simply determine which of the 3 states each token is in and sum all the edges while following the corresponding path on the trellis.
[00224] When a trellis is used as a feature for training a higher level segmenter, it becomes a token feature (every edge value is associated to the token to its left).
C. Labeling Segments
[00225] Labeling segments could be extremely tedious. Each word in a document requires a label. The trellis structure allows for interactive segment labeling. The main feature of a trellis is that it enables the search for the optimal path subject to constraints on the states. The default segmentation comes from the optimal trellis path without constraints. This segmentation can assign the default labels to each visible token. The labels can be made visible to the operator by highlighting the visual representations (e.g., words) of the corresponding tokens when they are either in the Begin or Continue state.
[00226] Each click on the bounding box of a visible token (e.g., word) toggles the state of the token. The distinction between Begin and Continue is a rather subtle one; it allows the distinction between a long segment and two adjacent ones. This is a UX challenge. Once a visible token has been clicked, it is constrained. Tokens that have never been clicked are unconstrained. For every operator click on a visible token, a constraint has been added/changed/removed. This triggers a dynamic programming optimization on the trellis to find the new resulting optimal path in 0(n) steps. This will likely change the default labels of the remaining unconstrained tokens. In other words, the system is working with the operator to always display the best solution given the operator constraints. For instance, one click anywhere on a missed address is likely to trigger the whole address to be labeled as a segment correctly. This is because if any of the address token is part of an address segment, the likelihoods of the adjacent tokens to be part of an address are greatly increased. If the optimal trellis path is computed on every click, tokens tend to flip in logical groups. This makes labeling segments less tedious and requires less hand-eye coordination. Note that every click is forward progress because it results in an added constraint. A visual clue may be provided to indicate which visual tokens got their values by default and which got their values by labeling.
[00227] Confidence: Similar to classification labels, it may be desirable to deemphasize the importance of labeling accuracy. It is desirable that the operator would only look at segments or missed segments that have a low confidence and label these first. An interesting UX challenge is: how should confidence be displayed?
[00228] Given a document with a few identified segments, the low confidence segments should visually pop out so that the operator could zoom in on these, make a decision, and submit the new labels without having to read the whole document. This is even more desirable for missed segments. On a given document, the most likely candidate for a segment should visually pop out so that the operator can zoom in on these and take the appropriate action. If there are no low-confidence candidates, the operator should be able to ignore the whole document without reading it.
[00229] Displaying segment confidence is not trivial. There are 0(2n) possible segmentations. Displaying confidence at the token level would be misleading and the page would look like salt and pepper. For instance, every number or instance of the word "main" could be a candidate for a missed address.
[00230] This problem is solved by going back to the trellis representation. The default path provides a path score at the document level. Called this score the Default Optimal Path Score, or DOPS. This global score has no meaning at the token level. If a token is clicked, its label is changed and the new optimal path given this constraint provides a different score. Call this new score COPS(tokeri), for constrained optimal path score. This new score by itself has no meaning at the token level. However, the difference Conf {token) = DOPC - COPS (token)
is the system estimate of the effect of flipping the label of a given token. If the difference is close to 0, then the system is not confident that it has the right label (flipping it has not effect). Note that
0 < Conf token)≤ 1
since path scores are probabilities and DOPC is the optimal path when no state is constrained. If the score is close to 0, then the system is not confident on whether the corresponding token belongs to a segment. From a UX perspective, confidence can be color-coded at the token level, or the low confidence tokens, which verify Conf (token) < K, where K is a confidence threshold, can be highlighted. Since labels tend to flip in groups, adjacent tokens are likely to have the same score differences, so it is possible to indicate to the operator which tokens will flip together when one label is changed. It is at least plausible that an operator may label a document by just looking at the low confidence segments (or low confidence non-segments) and may take action only on these segments without having to read the entire document. This is a significant decrease of the segment labeling cost.
[00231] The optimal path given a constraint is computed in 0(n) using dynamic programming. If Conf (token) is computed for every token, a naive implementation would consume 0(n2) steps. If a document has 100,000 tokens, this could become a problem. Fortunately, the whole function Conf (token) can be computed in 0(n). The trick is to do two dynamic programming passes, one in each direction, to compute the optimal path in both directions from the current token to each end of the document. Both of these passes are done in 0(n). The quantity Conf (token) is simply the sum of the scores of the two half paths.
[00232] To find the documents that are most likely to have a segment, the segment classifier can be turned into a regular classifier with the operation:
h': d, w→ ∑ h(f(d), s, w) = l - h(f(d), (), w)
Vs s.t. s≠()
[00233] In other words, ! is the sum of the probabilities of all segmentations that contain at least one segment. It returns the probability that there is at least one segment on the page.
VI. Segment Extraction
[00234] Segment extraction (AKA entity extraction or EE) is the process of identifying token segments in a document that correspond to a given concept. As an example, suppose a user is interested in automatically extracting addresses and their constituent parts (city, state, etc.) from a web page so that he or she can quickly look them up on a map. FIG. 11 depicts a simplified representation of a web page 1110 that includes an address 1112 along with labels 1114 and corresponding constituent parts 1116 of the address that have been extracted from the web page.
[00235] Statistical methods for segment extraction typically use training data to build a finite state machine (FSM) that can be used to decode a document. An example finite state machine for extracting addresses is illustrated in FIG. 12. The nodes 1210, 1212, and 1214 are the states of the FSM, and the edges 1216, 1218, 1220, 1222, 1224, and 1226 are transitions between states. Each dashed transition (1218 and 1216) "consumes" a document token and labels it as being part of an address, whereas each dotted edge (1214 and 1224) consumes a token and labels it as NOT being part of an address. The solid edges are epsilon transitions that do not consume any tokens.
[00236] Given a document, the FSM is "rolled out" to create a corresponding trellis that can be used to calculate path probabilities in the document, as illustrated in FIG. 13. FIG. 13 includes the trellis 1310, edges 1312, nodes 1314, and document tokens 1316. For the sake of clarity, only some of the edges and nodes are labeled. FIG. 13 depicts each token 1316 aligned beneath the possible paths for that token.
[00237] Each edge 1312 in trellis 1310 has a weight that is a function of features in the document. Using standard decoding algorithms (e.g., Viterbi), one can identify the highest- weight path through the trellis 1310 and output the corresponding labeling of the tokens 1316 and transitions (edges) 1312. One can also train the weight functions so that the probability of any given path can be extracted.
[00238] The edge-weight functions are typically functions of token features that are "near" the edge of interest, although this is not a requirement. In the example under discussion, and with reference to FIG. 14, suppose there are two token features, IsNumber and IsStreetType, which are depicted as token features 1410. IsNumber, which is 1 if the token 1412 corresponds to a number ("1401" and "THIRD") and IsStreetType which is 1 for tokens 1412 corresponding to types of streets ("STREET", "ST", "AVENUE", "AVE"). Then each token 1412 has a corresponding feature vector 1414 of dimension 2, as illustrated in FIG. 14.
[00239] With reference again to FIG. 13, consider the edge-weight function for the solid "horizontal" edge in the trellis 1310. This function could look at the features of the token before the transition and the token after the transition: Weight(Features) = θ1 x IsNumber(token before) + θ2 xIsStreetType(token before) + θ3 x IsNumber (token after) + θ4 xIsStreetType(token after). [00240] The parameters θι are trained to mazimize some loss function on a training set. The training set typically contains labels that correspond to paths along a trellis. Intuitively, the training algorithms try to learn weight functions such that the labeled paths in the training data have higher total weight than the non-labeled paths.
[00241] Training data can also specify constraints on the allowed set of paths through a trellis without uniquely identifying a single path. In the example described above, one could have a label indicating that "1401," "THIRD," and "AVENUE" are all addresss tokens; because of the structure of the trellis, this does not uniquely identify the path, but rather constrains the path to the dashed token-consuming edges on the middle three tokens.
A. Hierarchical State Machine
[00242] In most segment-extraction domains, the concepts of interest are hierarchical. In the address example, an address has sub-concepts such as street, and street can have sub- concepts as well. Such a domain can be represented as a "concept hierarchy," where the root node represents the concept of interest, and children nodes correspond to mutually exclusive sub-components; by mutually exclusive is meant that a single token can belong to at most one of the sub-components (thus, "Third" can be part of a street or part of a zip code, but it cannot be part of both).
[00243] Finite state machines can be specified hierarchically in a number of different ways to simplify the representation. Consider a hierarchical finite state machine (HFSM) in which an FSM is defined recursively using modules; the transitions within a module can correspond to "normal" state transitions, or they can refer to transitions into sub-modules.
[00244] As an example, FIG. 15 illustrates two modules. Module "X" 1510 on the left has module edges 1512, labeled "mY", which transition into module "Y" 1514 and a transition edge "tX" 1516, which is a normal transition edge that consumes a token. Module Y 1514 has a normal transition edge "tY" 1518 that consumes a token and a normal transition edge 1520 that does not consume any tokens. By recursively replacing the module edges 1512 with the sub modules, one recovers a standard corresponding FSM, as illustrated in the FSM 1600 depicted in FIG. 16. The FSM 1600 includes transition edges "tY" 1610, transition edge "tX" 1612, and transition edges 1614, which correspond, respectively, to transition edge "tX" 1516, transition edge "tY" 1518, and transition edge 1520 of FIG. 15.
B. Interactively Constructing Segment Extraction Models
[00245] To build a segment-extraction system for a domain, a machine-learning expert is typically needed to (1) define the structure of the underlying finite state machine, (2) define the feature functions for the edges, which requires tuning the size of the "window" to consider around each edge as well as which features to use, and (3) tune the resulting model so that it meets the performance requirements of the application. Also, the machine-learning expert usually starts with a fixed labeled training set and test set. Described below is a system that allows a domain expert to construct entity extraction models without the need for a machine-learning expert.
[00246] An interactive system for building segment extractors may include a means for the user to specify constraints governing whether a token belongs or not to a particular segment, and a means for storing these constraints as labels (labeling capability); a means for the system to re-compute and display the most plausible segments interactively using the latest user input, the current document information, and a trainable function (interactive propagation of labels, with no retraining); a means for the system to train the trainable function using all previously input labels (machine learning required, slow non- interactive training); and a means for the system to automatically select which example to label next, based on the score computed by the trainable function (active labeling).
C. Concept Hierarchy
[00247] With the technology described herein, domain experts can provide interactively a concept hierarchy corresponding to the domain of interest. In the address example, it does not take a machine-learning expert to be able to decompose an address into its constituent parts. By providing a user interface that allows the domain expert to specify the concept hierarchy, and then converting that hierarchy into an HFSM by using default structure within the modules, and/or by using labeled data to choose among candidate structures, sophisticated extraction models can be built without the domain expert knowing or caring about state machines.
[00248] Furthermore, the "language" that the domain expert uses can be extended to allow him to provide additional constraints within the machine. For example, the domain expert may want to state that an address can contain at most one zip code, or that any address must have a street portion present. [00249] Additionally, a domain expert can build an extractor for some concept, and then "plug it in" as a sub-concept for another task. This corresponds to having modules in an HFSM correspond to previously trained HFSM. In the example, someone could build a zip-code extractor outside the context of addresses. Then, when specifying the concept hierarchy for addresses, the person could say that the zip-code sub-concept corresponds to the previous concept. When one does such a "plug in", one may decide to freeze the weights of the sub-machine so that they do not need to be trained in the new domain.
[00250] An interactive system for building segment extractors may include one or more of: a user interface allowing the user to specify interactively a concept hierarchy, and it may be that no other information about the hierarchical state machine is provided by the user, and the system uses default strategies and/or model-selection strategies to complete the specification of the hierarchical state machine. An interactive system for building segment extractors may be such that the user can provide a concept hierarchy and one or more additional constraints about the domain that translate into constraints on the hierarchical state machine, and may also be such that an additional constraint is that a sub- concept instance can occur at most once in an instance of its parent concept (e.g., an address can contain at most one zip code). There may also be additional constraints including that a sub-concept instance must appear at least once in an instance of its parent concept (e.g., an address must contain a state), a partial order over the sub-concepts (e.g., city must precede state in an address), and that two sibling sub-concepts cannot both appear in an instance of their parent concept (an address cannot contain a U.S. postal code and a Canadian postal code).
[00251] An interactive system for building segment extractors may also be such that previously built models for concepts can be re-used (e.g., someone builds a zip-code extractor and you can tell the system that you want to use that same extractor but in the context of your address extractor). It may also be that the parameters of the re -used extractor are frozen (i.e., the edge- weight functions are fixed) for the edges contained within the module, but where the edge-weight functions on the in-coming and out-going transition edges to that module are trained for context.
D. Label Modularity / Binary Labeling
[00252] When labeling a hierarchical concept such as address, it can be tedious to label all constituent parts of an address for every document. It is much easier for the domain user to concentrate on one node in the hierarchy ("Address" or "Zip Code") at a time, quickly labeling many documents. [00253] Label modularity, as used herein with regard to labeling, refers to labeler focus, i.e., the ability to label/optimize for one module at a time. Note that because all modules are connected together in the HFSM, improvements and labels for one module can improve the other modules at the same time; label modularity is used specifically to mean modularity of user focus.
[00254] As used herein, a module in an HFSM is said to be binary if the labels to be elicited by the user are characterized by "in" or "out" labels on modules. In particular, a token labeled "in" is the restriction that the edge "consuming" the token must be contained with the given module or one of its descendants (e.g., if a token is labeled "Address," it can be any one of its child concepts or an implicit "Address:other"). Similarly, a token labeled "out" is the restriction that the edge "consuming" the token cannot be contained within the given module or any of its descendants.
[00255] A non-binary HFSM would be one where additional labels are available. For example, suppose a "Street" module consumed two distinct labels that do not correspond to sub-modules: Street 1 and Street2. Then a labeling tool might be able to elicit from the user which type of street a token is. Of course, this could be converted into an equivalent binary labeling of IsStreetl and IsStreet2.
[00256] When each module in an HFSM is binary, then a binary labeling tool can be used to elicit labels for the HFSM on a per-module basis. FIG. 17 depicts an exemplary screen shot 1700 of a system for binary labeling of addresses.
[00257] A concept hierarchy 1710 is shown on the left, having a root node 1712 ("Address") and three children 1714 ("Street," "City," and "Zip Code"). As depicted, the user has the root node 1712 selected. In the corresponding HFSM, there is a child concept "Address: Other" not shown explicitly to the user that allows the machine to accept address tokens that do not belong to the three children (such as punctuation, filler text, etc.). A web page 1716 returned as a search result is displayed on the right. To label the tokens on the page 1716 that are part of an address, having first selected the root node 1712, the user clicks on the first token 1718 ("15710 NE 24th ST. SUITE E") and drags to the last token 1720 ("98008") of the address, thereby selecting the entire address portion. FIG. 18 depicts a portion of the search results from FIG. 17, and is generally referred to as search results 1800. FIG. 18 illustrates a user selection of an entire address portion 1810.
[00258] Note that knowing the tokens that are part of the address does not provide explicit labels about which tokens are Street, City or Zip Code. The user then clicks the Submit button 1722 of FIG. 17, and is shown a new document. The new document shown may be based on an explicit search term the user provided (e.g., pages containing "98008"), or based on an active learning algorithm (see below) that uses an existing model.
[00259] After labeling a number of documents, the system trains a model that can be used to "pre label" addresses. Furthermore, the pre-label can take constraints into account to quickly elicit labels; if a proposed label is not correct, the user can click on a single token that has the wrong label, and this constraint can "propagate" to other tokens in the document.
[00260] The user can change which concept to label by clicking on the corresponding node in the concept hierarchy, such as "Street," "City," or "Zip Code." Thus, if the user wants to label cities next, he can click on the city node and proceed to label cities within addresses on documents, as depicted in FIG. 19. FIG. 19 depicts an exemplary screen shot 1900 of a system for binary labeling of addresses comparable to that of FIG. 17, and is generally referred to as screen shot 1900.
[00261] A concept hierarchy 1910 is shown on the left, having a root node 1912 ("Address") and three children nodes: child node 1914 ("Street"), child node 1916 ("City"), and child node 1918 ("Zip Code"). As depicted, the user has the "City" node 1916 selected. A web page 1920 returned as a search result is displayed on the right. As depicted, the user has selected a token 1922 ("BELLEVUE") as a city. With reference to FIG. 20, which depicts an exemplary screen shot 2000 comparable to a portion of screenshot 1900, note that when a user labels tokens as being "City," this implies that they are part of an address. If the user changes from City to Address before submitting the label, he will see that his city label has implied an address label, as illustrated in FIG. 20. With root node 2010 ("Address") now selected, the token 2012 ("Bellevue") remains selected, indicating that it is associated with the label of "Address."
[00262] An interactive system for building segment extractors may allow the domain expert to provide binary (in/out) labels associated with nodes in a concept hierarchy.
E. Segment Extraction Models and Classification Models as Features
[00263] Once an entity extraction model has been constructed, it can be used as input to the edge-weight functions in another entity extractor. For example, one could use an EE model to predict, for each token in a document, the probability that the token is part of an address. This probability, or some function of that probability, could then be used as one of the token feature values along with the other "standard" feature values. [00264] Entity extraction models can also be used to create document-level features for classification models. For example, one could be building a restaurant-page classifier that has a feature that, with probability > 0.5, an address exists on the page. Entity extraction models can also use classification models as features. An interactive system for building segment extractors may use pre-built segment-extraction models and/or pre-built classification models to generate input features for a segment-extraction model.
F. Segment Extraction Review Panel
[00265] When a segment-extraction model has been built, it is useful to see how that model predicts on a document that the user has already labeled. Mismatches between the predicted labels and the actual labels can indicate labeling errors or can suggest new features to add. FIG. 21 illustrates an exemplary screen shot 2100 of a review panel that does this, using the extraction problem of identifying dates. FIG. 21 includes document text 2110, token 2112 ("02/21/07"), token 2114 ("JANUARY"), and token 2116 ("BY"). A user-identified label is indicated by an underline 2118 beneath token 2112. Model predictions 2120 are indicated by the upper three sides of a rectangle placed over the tokens 2112, 2114, and 2116. As shown in FIG. 21, the model has correctly identified "02/21/07" as a date, but has falsely labeled "JANUARY BY" as a date. Although "JANUARY" is a month, in the context shown, it is not part of an actual date.
[00266] FIG. 22, which illustrates an exemplary screen shot of a model prediction in a document that the user has labeled, depicts a situation where the model correctly identified token 2210 ("JULY 23"), but has missed token 2212 ("7-23-12") as being a date.
[00267] An interactive system for building segment extractors may have an interface to review labels with an existing model's predictions at the same time.
G. Mini-documents
[00268] Documents such as web pages or book chapters can be very long. As a result, "labeling a document" can be tedious simply because the labeler needs to scan the entire document. To mitigate this problem, documents can be segmented into more manageable sub-documents, but without losing the context of the segment that is being labeled. With regard to FIG. 23, which illustrates a screen shot 2300 of an exemplary labeling tool, a highlighted portion of a document, referred to as minidoc 2310, is depicted, consisting of the "bright" rectangle in the middle. The context around minidoc 2310 is visible to the labeler, but, in one embodiment, when the user submits a label, only the portion(s) of text within minidoc 2310 are submitted to the system. The user can change the size of minidoc 2310 by click-dragging its boundaries. Alternatively, if the user labels a segment of text outside minidoc 2310, then minidoc 2310 may be expanded to include that text.
[00269] A minidoc may be initialized in a number of ways. For example, given an existing model, one can identify a likely (or perhaps uncertain) address of interest, and then define a minidoc that contains that token segment. An interactive system for building segment extractors may segment an input document into smaller sub-documents. Additionally, the sub-documents may be automatically initialized based on a pre-existing segment-extraction model or on proximity to specific tokens or token features.
Claims
Hide Dependent 
1. A method of interactively generating dictionaries for machine learning, comprising: presenting a user interface for generating a dictionary that includes a list of one or both of words or n-grams that define a concept usable as a feature for training a classifier; presenting on the user interface a positive-example field configured to receive user-input words or n-grams that are positive examples of the concept, wherein the positive examples are received from one or more of A) a typed entry or B) a selection of one or more suggested words or n-grams from one or more suggestion-set fields; and presenting on the user interface the one or more suggestion-set fields configured to display one or more system-generated lists that contain suggested words or n-grams that are selectable for inclusion in the positive-example field.
2. The method of claim 1, the method further comprising: receiving a first user-input word or n-gram that is a first positive example of the concept; presenting a list of suggested words or n-grams that represent a generalized concept generated based at least on the first positive example of the concept.
3. The method of claim 2, the method further comprising: subsequent to presenting the list of suggested words or n-grams, receiving a second user-input word or n-gram that is a second positive example of the concept; refining the list of suggested words or n-grams based at least on a combination of the first positive example and the second positive example; and presenting the refined list of suggested words or n-grams that represent a refined generalized concept.
4. The method of claim 2, the method further comprising: receiving a user selection of one or more words or n-grams from a suggestion-set field; and including the user-selected one or more words or n-grams from the first suggestion set in the positive example field.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein each word or n-gram in the dictionary is assigned a respective weight.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the respective weight of each word or n-gram is scaled by a function of frequency and dictionary size based on training data during generation of the dictionary.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the scaled weights are related by a regularization constraint that adjusts the weights of the words that have less training data toward a value determined by the words that have more training data.
8. One or more computer storage media having embodied thereon computer-usable instructions that, when executed, facilitate a method of interactively generating dictionaries for machine learning, the method comprising: presenting a user interface for generating dictionaries, wherein a dictionary includes a list of n-grams that define a concept, and wherein the dictionary is usable as a feature for training a classifier; presenting, on the user interface, a positive-example input field configured to receive user- input n-grams that are positive examples of the concept; presenting on the user interface one or more suggestion-set fields configured to display one or more system-generated lists of suggested n-grams; receiving one or more user-input n-grams that are positive examples of the concept; generating a first set of suggested n-grams that represent a first generalized concept based on the one or more user-input positive examples; and presenting the first set of suggested n-grams in a first suggestion-set field on the user interface.
9. The media of claim 8, the method further comprising: generating a refinement of the first set of suggested n-grams that represents a refinement of the first generalized concept based on at least one or more additional user-input positive examples; and presenting the refinement of the first set of suggested n-grams on the user-interface.
10. The media of claim 9, the method further comprising: repeating the steps of generating the refinement and presenting the refinement until an indication is received that the user has finished editing the dictionary; and saving the contents of the positive-example input field in a dictionary.

US11625424B2：

Description
This application claims the benefit under 35 USC 371 to International Application No. PCT/AU2015/000240, filed Apr. 24, 2015, which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Nos. 61/984,016, filed Apr. 24, 2014 and 61/984,019, filed Apr. 24, 2014, each of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
The present invention relates to a method and apparatus for use in aligning ontology terms and a method and apparatus for use in semantic matching and in particular to determining meanings of ontology terms.
DESCRIPTION OF THE PRIOR ART
The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an acknowledgment or admission or any form of suggestion that the prior publication (or information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the common general knowledge in the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.
There are many thousands of public and private ontologies describing every aspect of the scientific, engineering and business worlds. This invention describes a set of processes which allow the knowledge and metadata in these advanced ontologies to be applied to the management of any data regardless of the data structure or lack of structure.
The explosive growth of knowledge and data is beyond the ability of traditional information management mechanisms to manage or even describe. Semantic Web technologies such as ontologies and new languages such as OWL (Web Ontology Language) and RDF (Resource Description Framework) enable the description of linked concepts such as health, medicine or engineering to be described in previously impossible detail and in a manner which is both human and machine understandable. These ontologies are typically created by teams of subject matter experts (ontologists) and are frequently publically available.
Currently the manipulation of ontologies defining linked concepts is largely confined to academics and professional ontologists. These ontologies may contain many thousands of linked concepts. Removing even one concept, axiom or data property could render many of the relationships invalid. Determining the effects manually is a long and tedious process.
The need for ontology alignment arises out of the need to integrate heterogeneous databases, ones developed independently and thus each having their own data vocabulary. In the Semantic Web context involving many actors providing their own ontologies, ontology matching has taken a critical place for helping heterogeneous resources to interoperate. Ontology alignment tools find classes of data that are “semantically equivalent”, for example, “Truck” and “Lorry”. The classes are not necessarily logically identical.
U.S. Pat. No. 7,464,099 provides a method of transferring content from a file and a database. In this case, the file includes content instances, each content instance being associated with a respective field, and each field having a respective type. The transfer is achieved by determining the type of each field, and then storing each content instance in a store in accordance with the determined field type of the associated field. Each content instance can then be transferred to the database in accordance with the determined field type. A similar procedure is provided for creating XML files based on content within the database.
SUMMARY OF THE PRESENT INVENTION
In one broad form the invention seeks to provide apparatus for determining a meaning of an ontology term, the apparatus including an electronic processing device that:
compares the ontology term to a number of potential ontology term meanings;
generates a matching score for the results of each comparison, the matching score being based on a similarity of the ontology term and the potential ontology term meaning; and
selects a potential ontology term as the ontology term meaning using the matching scores.
Typically each potential ontology term meaning has an associated context, and wherein the electronic processing device selects a group of potential ontology terms based on a context of the ontology term defined by a user.
Typically the electronic processing device, generates the matching score based on whether an ontology term name and potential ontology term meaning are related as at least one of:
a synonym;
an antonym;
a meronym;
a superclass;
a subclass;
holonym;
hyponym;
hypernym;
troponym; and
other semantic classifications.
Typically the electronic processing device uses the potential ontology term meaning to determine related meanings for the ontology term, the related meanings including at least one of:
a root meaning;
synonyms;
antonyms;
subclasses;
superclasses;
meronyms;
holonyms;
hyponyms;
hypernyms;
troponyms; and
other semantic classifications.
Typically the electronic processing device stores an indication of the ontology term meaning in an index, the indication including at least one of:
an identifier indicative of a defined meaning; and
an indication of related meanings.
Typically the electronic processing device:
determines an ontology term name; and
determines the matching score using the ontology term name.
Typically the electronic processing device:
determines annotations associated with the ontology term; and
determines the matching score using the annotations.
Typically the electronic processing device:
determines a context associated with the ontology term; and
obtains potential ontology term meanings using at least one of:
the context; and
at least one related context.
Typically the electronic processing device:
determines a name and annotation associated with an ontology term;
derives a first meaning from the annotation;
obtains a second meaning from potential ontology term meanings using the name; and
determines the ontology term meaning using the first and second meanings.
Typically the electronic processing device:
compares the first and second meanings; and
determines a matching score based on the result of the comparison.
Typically the electronic processing device:
converts the first and second meanings into respective sets of RDF triples;
compares the sets of RDF triples; and
determines a matching score based on at least one of:
a number of shared triples;
a number of shared predicates; and
a number of shared predicate object pairs.
Typically the potential ontology term meanings are derived from a reference ontology and stored in a concept matching database.
Typically the reference ontology determines the context of the potential ontology term meanings.
Typically the electronic processing device determines the potential ontology term meanings by, for each ontology term in the reference ontology:
determining a name and annotation;
deriving a first meaning from the annotation;
obtaining a second meaning from a reference database using the name; and
determining a potential ontology term meaning using the first and second meanings.
Typically the electronic processing device:
determines a context associated with the ontology; and
obtains the second meaning using the context.
Typically the electronic processing device:
compares the first and second meanings; and
determines a matching score based on the result of the comparison.
Typically the electronic processing device:
converts the first and second meanings into respective sets of RDF triples;
compares the sets of RDF triples; and
determines a matching score based on at least one of:
a number of shared triples;
a number of shared predicates; and
a number of shared predicate object pairs.
In one broad form the invention seeks to provide a method of determining a meaning of an ontology term, the method including, in an electronic processing device:
comparing the ontology term to a number of potential ontology term meanings;
generating a matching score for the results of each comparison, the matching score being based on a similarity of the ontology term and the potential ontology term meaning; and
selecting a potential ontology term as the ontology term meaning using the matching scores.
In one broad form the invention seeks to provide apparatus for matching ontology terms in two sets of ontology terms, the apparatus including an electronic processing device that:
determines a matching score for each pair of ontology terms, each pair of ontology terms including an ontology term in each of the two sets and the matching score being based on a similarity of the ontology term meanings of the respective ontology terms; and
selects a pair of matching ontology terms using the matching scores.
Typically the electronic processing device determines an ontology term meaning for each ontology term of the pair of ontology terms by:
comparing the ontology term to a number of potential ontology term meanings; and
selects a potential ontology term as the ontology term meaning using the results of the comparison.
Typically the electronic processing device, generates the matching score based on whether the ontology terms are related as at least one of:
a synonym;
an antonym;
a meronym;
a superclass;
a subclass;
holonym;
hyponym;
hypernym;
troponym; and
other semantic classifications.
In one broad form the invention seeks to provide a method for matching ontology terms in two sets of ontology terms, the method including in an electronic processing device:
determining a matching score for each pair of ontology terms, each pair of ontology terms including an ontology term in each of the two sets and the matching score being based on a similarity of the ontology term meanings of the respective ontology terms; and
selecting a pair of matching ontology terms using the matching scores.
In one broad form the invention seeks to provide apparatus for generating a concept matching database, the apparatus including an electronic processing device that, for each ontology term in a reference ontology:
determines a name and annotation;
derives a first meaning from the annotation;
obtains a second meaning from a reference database using the name; and
determines a potential ontology term meaning using the first and second meanings.
Typically the electronic processing device:
determines a context associated with the ontology; and
obtains the second meaning using the context.
Typically the electronic processing device:
compares the first and second meanings; and
determines a matching score based on the result of the comparison.
Typically the electronic processing device:
converts the first and second meanings into respective sets of RDF triples;
compares the sets of RDF triples; and
determines a matching score based on at least one of:
a number of shared triples;
a number of shared predicates; and
a number of shared predicate object pairs.
In one broad form the invention seeks to provide a method for generating a concept matching database, the method including in an electronic processing device, for each ontology term in a reference ontology:
determining a name and annotation;
deriving a first meaning from the annotation;
obtaining a second meaning from a reference database using the name; and
determining a potential ontology term meaning using the first and second meanings.
In a further form, the present invention seeks to provide apparatus for use in aligning ontology terms, the apparatus including at least one electronic processing device that:
compares a plurality of ontology terms;
determines a matching score for pairs of ontology terms based on a similarity of ontology term meanings of pairs of ontology terms; and
determines an alignment between a pair of ontology terms at least partially in accordance with matching scores.
Typically the electronic processing device, determines the alignment score at least partially in accordance with at least one of:
a similarity of relationships between ontology terms; and
a similarity of properties of the ontology terms.
Typically the electronic processing device, determines an alignment between ontology classes using:
meanings of the classes;
relationships between classes; and
data properties of the classes.
Typically the alignment is at least one of:
a one to one alignment;
a one to many alignment;
a many to one alignment; and
a many to many alignment.
Typically the electronic processing device determines the alignment at least in part using an index, the index including, for each of a plurality of ontology terms, an indication of:
an ontology term meaning; and
an ontology term type.
Typically the ontology term type includes classes, data properties and object properties.
Typically the electronic processing device generates an alignment index indicative of aligned ontology terms.
Typically the electronic processing device determines alignment between ontology terms in different ontologies.
Typically each ontology includes classes having data properties and object properties indicative of relationships between the classes, wherein the electronic processing device determines alignment between classes in the different ontologies at least in part using a class meaning, the data properties and object properties.
Typically the electronic processing device, for each pair of classes:
determines a matching score using a class meaning;
compares the matching score to a threshold; and
identifies a potential alignment if the matching score exceeds the threshold.
Typically the electronic processing device:
determines a matching score between a root classes of the first ontology with each class of the second ontology starting with the root class of the second ontology and progressing to child classes; and
determines a matching score between each child classes of the first ontology with each class of the second ontology starting with the root class of the second ontology and progressing to child classes.
Typically the electronic processing device, for each potential alignment:
compares at least one of the object properties and the data properties of the respective pair of classes; and
updates the matching score in accordance with the results of at least one comparison.
Typically the electronic processing device, for each potential alignment:
compares an updated matching score to a threshold; and
excludes the potential alignment if the updated matching score is below the threshold.
Typically the electronic processing device determines if a potential alignment is a multi-class alignment based on:
relative numbers of data properties of the classes; and
an alignment category.
Typically the electronic processing device determines an alignment category depending on whether:
all related classes are potential alignments;
all super classes but not sub classes are potential alignments; and
all super classes but only some sub classes are potential alignments.
Typically the electronic processing device resolves multi-class alignments at least one of:
based on comparison of data properties; and
in accordance with user input commands.
Typically if one of the ontologies is a putative ontology, the electronic processing device:
determines if the putative ontology includes data properties corresponding to classes;
and in response to a positive comparison:
expands the classes; and
identifies new potential alignments using the expanded classes.
Typically the electronic processing device:
assigns potential alignments to at least one minimal map based on an ontology structure; and
combines minimal maps to form an alignment map.
Typically the electronic processing device assigns related classes to a common minimal map so that each minimal map contains ontology classes related by parent/child relationships.
Typically the electronic processing device assigns classes to a new minimal map in accordance with at least one of:
user input commands;
a processing time to determine an alignment;
an alignment complexity;
an alignment path distance; and
an alignment type of a current alignment.
Typically the electronic processing device combines minimal maps by identifying overlaps between the minimal maps.
Typically the electronic processing device:
stores each minimal map as a series of RDF triples; and
queries the RDF triples to identify overlaps.
In one form the present invention seeks to provide a method for use in aligning ontology terms, the method including, in at least one electronic processing device:
comparing a plurality of ontology terms;
determining a matching score for pairs of ontology terms based on a similarity of ontology term meanings of pairs of ontology terms; and
determining an alignment between a pair of ontology terms at least partially in accordance with matching scores.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
An example of the present invention will now be described with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
FIG. 1A is a flow chart of an example of a method for use in for determining a meaning of an ontology term;
FIG. 1B is a flow chart of an example of a method for use in for matching ontology terms in two sets of ontology terms;
FIG. 1C is a flow chart of an example of a method for use in generating a concept matching database;
FIG. 1D is a flow chart of an example of a method for use in aligning ontology terms;
FIG. 2 is a schematic diagram of an example of a distributed computer architecture;
FIG. 3 is a schematic diagram of an example of a base station processing system;
FIG. 4 is a schematic diagram of an example of an computer system;
FIG. 5 is a flow chart of an example of a method for use in generating a mapping for transferring content between source and target data structures;
FIG. 6 is a flow chart of an example of a method of generating a putative ontology;
FIG. 7 is a flow chart of an example of a method of determining an index;
FIG. 8 is a flow chart of an example of a method of browsing an ontology;
FIG. 9 is a flow chart of an example of a method for pruning an ontology;
FIG. 10 is a flow chart of a second example of a method for aligning ontologies;
FIG. 11 is a flow chart of an example of a semantic matching method;
FIGS. 12A and 12B are schematic diagrams of example ontologies;
FIG. 13 is a schematic diagram of the modules used for interacting with ontologies;
FIG. 14A is a schematic diagram of an example of the software stack of the ETL (Extraction Transformation Load) module of FIG. 13 ;
FIG. 14B is a schematic diagram of an architecture used for implementing the ETL module if FIG. 13 ;
FIG. 15 is a schematic diagram of an example of the functionality of the browser module of FIG. 13 ;
FIG. 16 is a schematic diagram of an example of the functionality of the indexer module of FIG. 13 ;
FIG. 17A is a schematic diagram of an example of the functionality of the pruner module of FIG. 13 ;
FIGS. 17B to 17D are schematic diagrams of examples of a pruning process;
FIG. 18A is a schematic diagram of a first example of the functionality of the semantic matcher module of FIG. 13 ;
FIG. 18B is a schematic diagram of a second example of the functionality of the semantic matcher module of FIG. 13 ;
FIG. 18C is a schematic diagram of an example of relationships between tables;
FIG. 18D is a schematic diagram of a third example of the functionality of the semantic matcher module of FIG. 13 ;
FIG. 19A is a schematic diagram of an example of a “thing database”;
FIG. 19B is a schematic diagram of an example of a framework for unifying disparate sources;
FIG. 19C is a schematic diagram of an example of the functionality of the aligner module of FIG. 13 ; and
FIGS. 19D and 19E are schematic diagrams of examples of merged ontologies.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
Examples of methods of using semantic matching to determine meanings of ontology terms will now be described with reference to FIGS. 1A to 1C.
For the purpose of example, it is assumed that the process is performed at least in part using an electronic processing device, such as a microprocessor of a computer system, as will be described in more detail below.
For at least some of the examples, it is also assumed that content is stored as one or more content instances in content fields of a data store acting as a content repository, such as database or file. Thus, the content fields could be database fields of a database, with a content instance corresponding to a database record, including values stored across one or more database fields. Alternatively, content fields could be fields defined within a file, such as an XML file, which may be used for transporting data, for example, when data is to be extracted from and/or transferred to a database, as will become apparent from the description below. As another alternative, content fields could be fields defined within a file, such as an RDF triple store, which may be used for transporting data, for example, when data is to be extracted from and/or transferred to a RDF triple store database, as will also become apparent from the description below. It is assumed that the content is stored in accordance with a data structure, such as a database schema, XML document definition, ontology or schema, or the like.
For the purpose of illustration throughout the following description, the term “source” is used to refer to a data store, such as a database or file from which data is being extracted, whilst the term “target” is used to refer to a data store, such as a database or file into which data is being stored. These terms are for the purpose of illustration only, for example to distinguish between possible sources and targets, and are not intended to be limiting.
The term “content instance” refers to an individual piece of content that is being extracted from a source and/or transferred to a target and is also not intended to be limiting. For example the term content instance could refer to a database record having values stored in a number of different database fields, or a set of related database records, or could alternatively refer to a single value stored within a single field.
The term “ontology” represents knowledge as a set of concepts within a domain, using a shared vocabulary to denote the types, properties and interrelationships of those concepts. Ontologies typically include a number of components such as individuals, classes, objects, attributes or the like and the term “ontology terms” is generally used to refer to these components and optionally specific ones of these concepts.
The term “meaning” is intended to refer to the semantic interpretation of a particular ontology term, content field name, or the like. The term meaning therefore encompasses the intended meaning of the ontology term or content field, for example to account for issues such as homonyms, synonyms, meronyms, or the like, as will be described in more detail below.
In a first example shown in FIG. 1A, semantic matching is used to determine a meaning of an ontology term.
In this example, at step 100, an ontology term is compared to a number of potential ontology term meanings. This can be achieved in any suitable manner, but typically involves comparing at least a name of an ontology term to potential ontology term meanings stored in a database, referred to as a concept matching database. The ontology term can be selected manually by a user, or may alternatively be supplied by another processing element, such as a module implemented by the electronic processing device, as will be described in more detail below.
At step 110, the electronic processing device generates a matching score for the results of each comparison, the matching score being based on a similarity of the ontology term and the potential ontology term meaning. The matching score can be generated using any appropriate technique, but typically takes into account at least the similarity of a name of the ontology term with the potential ontology term meanings. Thus, the matching score could be a simple as an assessment of whether the name is identical or semantically related to the meaning, for example as a synonym, homonym, or the like. Alternatively, the matching score could also take into account other factors, such as properties and relationships of the ontology terms, as will be described in more detail below.
At step 120, the electronic processing device selects a potential ontology term as the ontology term meaning using the matching scores. Thus, for example, the electronic processing device can select the potential ontology term meaning with the highest matching score as the meaning of the ontology term.
Accordingly, the above described process provides a simple mechanism to allow meanings of ontology terms to be defined. This is particularly important in the case of putative ontologies that are generated from data structures, and for which formal definitions may not be available. However, this can also have use in the case of defined formalized ontologies, which whilst these might have defined meanings for particular terms, these may not match the definitions used in other scenarios or ontologies, so this allows a normalized meaning to be determined, which in turn can be more easily used in matching or aligning ontology terms between different ontologies.
In this regard, as shown in FIG. 1B the semantic matching process can be used for matching ontology terms in two sets of ontology terms.
In this example, at step 130, the electronic processing device determines a matching score for each pair of ontology terms, each pair of ontology terms including an ontology term in each of the two sets and the matching score being based on a similarity of the ontology term meanings of the respective ontology terms. A matching pair of ontology terms can then be selected based on the results of the comparison at step 140.
This process can be performed in any appropriate manner and typically involves having the electronic processing device determine to the two lists of ontology terms from an appropriate source, such as in accordance with user input commands or from another module. The matching score could be based on the names of the ontology terms alone, but more typically is achieved by determining a normalised ontology term meaning by comparing the ontology terms to the potential ontology term meanings in the concept matching database. The normalised ontology terms can then be compared and matching scores generated, for example based on whether the meanings of the terms are identical or semantically related as synonyms, homonyms or the like.
It will be appreciated that both of the above described methods can therefore make use of a concept matching database, and in this regard a method of generating a concept matching database will now be described with reference to FIG. 1C.
In particular, in this example, the concept matching database is populated by ontology terms from a reference ontology, with the meaning of the reference ontology terms being verified. To achieve this, the electronic processing device determines a name and annotation associated with an ontology term at step 150. This can be achieved using any suitable mechanism, such as accessing the name from an index and retrieving the annotations from the ontology, which may be stored in an ontology database or the like.
At step 160, the electronic processing device derives a first meaning for the ontology term from the annotation. Thus, the annotation will typically specify a meaning as defined by the ontologist creating the ontology. At step 170, the electronic processing device derives a second meaning for the ontology term using the name. This typically involves using a reference database, such as a dictionary, for example WordNet™.
At step 180, the electronic processing device determines a potential ontology term for the ontology term using the first and second meanings. This can be achieved in any suitable manner and can involve comparing the meanings to determine the extent to which these are complementary or overlap, using this as the defined meaning.
In any event, it will be appreciated that the above method goes beyond the meaning defined by the ontologist, thereby providing additional rigour and/or flexibility to the meaning, allowing this to be used more reliably in semantic matching processes.
An example of a method of aligning ontology terms will now be described with reference to FIG. 1D.
In this example, at step 190 the electronic processing device determines a plurality of ontology terms. This process can be performed in any appropriate manner, and can be performed automatically by the electronic processing device, for example based on predetermined criteria and/or manually based on user inputs. For example, the user could use a browser to browse ontologies and select one or more ontology terms of interest.
In either case, the ontology terms can be selected from one or more existing ontologies, stored for example in one or more ontology databases, or could alternatively be selected from one or more putative ontologies generated from respective data structures. The plurality of ontology terms can then be determined using an index, which identifies each of the ontology terms contained within the ontology. The ontology terms could include classes, data properties associated with classes, or object properties defining relationships between classes.
The plurality of ontology terms could be taken from the same or different ontologies, and typically includes ontology terms from two different ontologies, allowing an alignment between the two different ontologies to be established.
At step 192, the electronic processing device determines a matching score for pairs of ontology terms based on a similarity of ontology term meanings of pairs of ontology terms. The meaning of the ontology terms could be determined in any suitable manner, and in one example forms part of the index. Thus, the electronic processing device can identify the meaning of each ontology term from the index and then compares these to determine a matching score. The matching score could be a simple as an assessment of whether the meanings are identical or are semantically related, for example as synonyms, homonyms, or the like. Alternatively, the matching score could also take into account other factors, such as properties and relationships of the ontology terms, as will be described in more detail below. It will be appreciated that when the ontology terms are from different ontologies, it is typical to determine a matching score by comparing the ontology terms in one ontology to the ontology terms in the other ontology.
At step 194, the electronic processing device determines an alignment between the ontology terms using the matching scores. This can be achieved in any suitable manner, and for example could involve determining a matching score for each possible pairing of ontology terms, for example with each pairing containing an ontology term from a different ontology, or could alternatively involve progressively determining matching scores until a threshold score is reached at which point an alignment is determined. It will be appreciated that if an attempt is made to align two ontologies that are completely unrelated and/or in different fields, it is possible that no alignments exist.
At step 196, the electronic processing device optionally records an indication of any determined alignments. This could be in any suitable form and could include storing a merged ontology, or alternatively creating an alignment index, which is in the form of an index including details of aligned ontology terms.
The above described process therefore provides a simple mechanism to allow users to align ontologies and in particular ontology terms. In particular, the electronic processing device examines at least the meaning of the ontology terms and uses this to determine alignments, with this being used in one example to align ontology terms in one ontology with an equivalent or similar ontology terms in another ontology. Thus, this can be used to relate terms in one ontology with those in another ontology, which can in turn be used when merging ontologies and/or determining mappings between ontologies.
A number of further features will now be described.
In this regard, the electronic processing device is typically adapted to perform a number of different functions to facilitate the above described process, including browsing on ontologies, generating an index of ontologies, allowing users to browse and interact with ontologies, align ontologies, prune ontologies or the like and interpreting the meaning of ontology terms, as will now be further described.
Typically each potential ontology term meaning has an associated context, and wherein the electronic processing device selects a group of potential ontology terms based on a context of the ontology term defined by a user. In this regard, the meaning of terms can be context specific, so for example, the term “lead” would typically have a different meaning in the context of electronics as opposed to management. Accordingly, by selecting and/or defining potential ontology terms based on the context, this can improve the matching process.
The electronic processing device typically generates the matching score based on whether an ontology term name and potential ontology term meaning are related as at least one of a synonym; an antonym; a meronym; a superclass; a subclass; holonym; hyponym; hypernym; troponym; and, other semantic classifications.
Similarly, once a meaning has been determined for an ontology term, this is typically used to determine related meanings including at least one of: a root meaning; synonyms; antonyms; subclasses; superclasses; meronyms; holonyms; hyponyms; hypernyms; troponyms; and, other semantic classifications. This can be used in generating an index that includes an indication of the ontology term meaning. In this regard, the indication can include an identifier indicative of a defined meaning or an indication of related meanings. Thus, a lemma or other root word could be provided as the meaning, with a list of semantically related terms also being further included. This can be used as part of the concept matching database to assist with concept matching, but can also be incorporated into ontology indexes for use in other processes, such as aligning, pruning or the like.
When performing matching of ontology terms and potential ontology term meanings, the electronic processing device typically determines an ontology term name and determines the matching score using the ontology term name. Additionally and/or alternatively the electronic processing device can also however use annotations associated with the ontology term and then determine the matching score using the annotations. Thus, for putative ontologies, a meaning could be established on the name of the ontology term alone, whereas for formalized ontologies, the annotations could also be used to help refine the meaning.
The electronic processing device typically determines a context associated with the ontology term and obtains potential ontology term meanings using at least one of the context and at least one related context. Thus, the electronic processing device could confirm the comparison to potential ontology term meanings in a similar context, but could also consider other related contexts. So for example, if the context is electronics, this could also consider electrical engineering or the like.
The electronic processing device typically determines a name and annotation associated with an ontology term, derives a first meaning from the annotation, obtains a second meaning from potential ontology term meanings using the name and determines the ontology term meaning using the first and second meanings. Thus, this allows the electronic processing device to compare the two meanings and use this as a mechanism to refine the matching process. To achieve this, the electronic processing device can compare the first and second meanings and determine a matching score based on the result of the comparison.
In one example, the electronic processing device, determines the alignment score at least partially in accordance with at least one of a similarity of relationships between ontology terms and a similarity of properties of the ontology terms. Accordingly, this allows the alignment process to take into account not only the meaning of the ontology terms, but also the structure of the ontologies, which in turn makes it easier to identify ontology terms that are related but not necessarily equivalent, such as siblings or the like. Thus, it will be appreciated that the alignment can be a one to one alignment, or alternatively can be a one to many alignment, a many to one alignment or a many to many alignment.
In one particular example the electronic processing device, determines an alignment between ontology classes using meanings of the classes, relationships between classes and data properties of the classes.
The electronic processing device typically determines the alignment at least in part using an index, the index including, for each of a plurality of ontology terms, an indication of an ontology term meaning and an ontology term type, such as an indication of whether the ontology term is a class, data property or object property. Whilst the use of an index is not essential, it substantially reduces the amount of data that needs to be handled compared to use of an entire ontology, thereby making the alignment processes more manageable.
As mentioned above, alignment is often performed between ontology terms in different ontologies. When each ontology includes classes having data properties and object properties indicative of relationships between the classes, the electronic processing device typically determines alignment between classes in the different ontologies at least in part using a class meaning, the data properties and object properties.
In this case, the electronic processing device, for each pair of classes, determines a matching score using a class meaning, compares the matching score to a threshold and identifies a potential alignment if the matching score exceeds the threshold. Thus, this represents a course filtering mechanism in which pairings are excluded if the matching score falls below a threshold. This provides a mechanism to exclude pairings of ontology terms where it is clear that the meanings of the ontology terms are different. For the remaining potential alignments, additional analysis can then be performed to determine if an alignment exists, and if so the nature of the alignment.
Whilst the electronic processing device could determine the matching score of each possible pairing in a random sequence, more typically the electronic processing device determines a matching score between a root classes of the first ontology with each class of the second ontology starting with the root class of the second ontology and progressing to child classes and then goes on to determine a matching score between each child classes of the first ontology with each class of the second ontology starting with the root class of the second ontology and progressing to child classes. Using the ontology structure increases the likelihood of alignments being found and can reduce process, for example by not examining further pairings once a potential match has been found.
For each potential alignment the electronic processing device compares at least one of the object properties and the data properties of the respective pair of classes and updates the matching score in accordance with the results of at least one comparison. The updated alignment score can then be compared to a threshold and the potential alignment excluded if the updated matching score is below the threshold. Thus, the electronic processing device can progressively improve the accuracy of the matching score taking into account the object and data properties, and then use this to eliminate potential alignments that are not sufficiently similar.
Typically the electronic processing device determines if a potential alignment is a multi-class alignment based on relative numbers of data properties of the classes and an alignment category. In this regard, the electronic processing device can determine an alignment category depending on whether all related classes are potential alignments, all super classes but not sub classes are potential alignments and all super classes but only some sub classes are potential alignments. Thus, this can be used to identify sibling classes, or the like.
Typically once a multi-class alignment is found, this can be resolved based on comparison of data properties or in accordance with user input commands. Thus, the electronic processing device can compare the data properties of the ontology terms and see if this can allow a multi-class alignment to be automatically established. Additionally and/or alternatively, details of the respective ontology terms could be displayed to a user, allowing the user to manually define an alignment.
The above process can be performed on formalized and/or putative ontologies. In this regard, official created ontologies, such as the Galen ontology are generally referred to as a formalised ontology, whereas an ontology directly generated from a data structure, such as a database or XML schema, or the like, can be referred to as a putative ontology. Thus, for example, this could be used to determine an alignment between terms in a putative ontology and terms in a formalized ontology so that data within a database can be mapped to a formal ontology structure.
In the event that the ontologies include a putative ontology, the electronic processing device determines if the putative ontology includes data properties corresponding to classes and in response to a positive comparison expands the classes and identifies new potential alignments using the expanded classes. This can be used to identify if the data structure on which the ontology is denormalised. Thus, for example, the process effectively operates to examine the content of any denormalised database tables and expands the contents of this table to identify additional classes, which then undergo the above described alignment process. This process can be used to ensure any classes contained within the database tables are effectively aligned with ontology terms in the formalised ontology, so that the structure of the database can be aligned with a normalised structure. It will be appreciated that this allows content to be normalised when it is extracted from a denormalised database, as will be described in more detail below.
As part of the alignment process, the electronic processing device typically assigns potential alignments to at least one minimal map based on an ontology structure and then combines minimal maps to form an alignment map. This process typically involves assigning related classes to a common minimal map so that each minimal map contains ontology classes related by parent/child relationships. Classes are then assigned to a new minimal map in accordance with user input commands, a processing time to determine an alignment, an alignment complexity, an alignment path distance or an alignment type of a current alignment.
Thus, in on example, the alignment process proceeds progressively by comparing ontology terms within one ontology with those in another ontology, assigning potential alignments to a minimal map. This starts at a parent node within the ontologies, typically near the root node, and continues progressively through child nodes adding further potential alignments to the minimal map until certain criteria are met, such as the process becoming too computational expensive, it taking too long for further potential maps to be found, or the alignments themselves becoming too complex. At this point, the process commences at a new parent node, and establishes a new minimal map, progressively comparing child nodes and adding potential alignments to the new minimal map.
This continues until all parent nodes have been considered, or a sufficient number of minimal maps have been generated, at which point the electronic processing device can combine minimal maps by identifying overlaps between the minimal maps. Thus, the processing device examines the minimal maps for common ontology terms, which are then used to combine the minimal maps into an overall alignment map. This can be achieved in any suitable manner, but in one example involves storing each minimal map as a series of RDF triples and then querying the RDF triples to identify overlaps.
In another example, the electronic processing device can perform the comparison by converting the first and second meanings into respective sets of RDF triples, comparing the sets of RDF triples and determine a matching score based on at least one of a number of shared triples, a number of shared predicates or a number of shared predicate object pairs. It will be appreciated that this provides a straightforward mechanism to formalize and automate the comparison process, changing what could be a loose definition into formal RDF triples, allowing these to be directly compared.
The potential ontology term meanings are typically derived from a reference ontology and stored in a concept matching database, in which case the reference ontology determines the context of the potential ontology term meanings.
In one example, in order to allow the above described process to be performed, a number of different tools can be used to assist in generating mappings and managing the ontologies. In one example the tools are provided as part of a software suite forming an integrated package of ontology and data management tools. In one example, the tools include an indexer module that generates an index indicative of ontology terms in an ontology, a browser module that enables browsing of ontology terms in an ontology and generates code embodying at least part of the ontology thereby allowing a user to interact with data stored in a data structure in accordance with the ontology, an aligner module that determines alignment between ontology terms different ontologies, a pruner module that determines a group of ontology terms within at least one ontology at least in part using relationships between the ontology terms and a semantic matcher module that identifies ontology term meanings. However, the use of respective modules is not essential and other arrangements can be used.
In one example, the processes can be performed at least in part using a processing system, such as a suitably programmed computer system. This can be performed on a standalone computer, with the microprocessor executing applications software allowing the above described method to be performed. Alternatively, the process can be performed by one or more processing systems operating as part of a distributed architecture, an example of which will now be described with reference to FIG. 2 .
In this example, two base stations 201 are coupled via a communications network, such as the Internet 202, and/or a number of local area networks (LANs) 204, to a number of computer systems 203. It will be appreciated that the configuration of the networks 202, 204 are for the purpose of example only, and in practice the base station 201, computer systems 203 can communicate via any appropriate mechanism, such as via wired or wireless connections, including, but not limited to mobile networks, private networks, such as an 802.11 networks, the Internet, LANs, WANs, or the like, as well as via direct or point-to-point connections, such as Bluetooth, or the like.
In one example, each base station 201 includes a processing system 210 coupled to a database 211. The base station 201 is adapted to be used in managing ontologies, for example to perform browsing and optionally, pruning or alignment, as well as generating mappings for example for use in transferring content between source and target data stores. The computer systems 203 can be adapted to communicate with the base stations 201 to allow processes such as the generation of mappings to be controlled, although this is not essential, and the process can be controlled directly via the base stations 201.
Whilst each base station 201 is a shown as a single entity, it will be appreciated that the base station 201 can be distributed over a number of geographically separate locations, for example by using processing systems 210 and/or databases 211 that are provided as part of a cloud based environment. In this regard, multiple base stations 201 can be provided each of which is associated with a respective data stores or ontology, although alternatively data stores could be associated with the computer systems 203.
However, the above described arrangement is not essential and other suitable configurations could be used. For example, the processes could be performed on a standalone computer system.
An example of a suitable processing system 210 is shown in FIG. 3 . In this example, the processing system 210 includes at least one microprocessor 300, a memory 301, an input/output device 302, such as a keyboard and/or display, and an external interface 303, interconnected via a bus 304 as shown. In this example the external interface 303 can be utilised for connecting the processing system 210 to peripheral devices, such as the communications networks 202, 204, databases 211, other storage devices, or the like. Although a single external interface 303 is shown, this is for the purpose of example only, and in practice multiple interfaces using various methods (e.g. Ethernet, serial, USB, wireless or the like) may be provided.
In use, the microprocessor 300 executes instructions in the form of applications software stored in the memory 301 to allow for browsing, and optionally index generation, mapping and content transfer to/from the database 211 to be performed, as well as to communicate with the computer systems 203. The applications software may include one or more software modules, and may be executed in a suitable execution environment, such as an operating system environment, or the like.
Accordingly, it will be appreciated that the processing system 210 may be formed from any suitable processing system, such as a suitably programmed computer system, PC, database server executing DBMS, web server, network server, or the like. In one particular example, the processing system 210 is a standard processing system such as a 32-bit or 64-bit Intel Architecture based processing system, which executes software applications stored on non-volatile (e.g. hard disk) storage, although this is not essential. However, it will also be understood that the processing system could be any electronic processing device such as a microprocessor, microchip processor, logic gate configuration, firmware optionally associated with implementing logic such as an FPGA (Field Programmable Gate Array), or any other electronic device, system or arrangement.
As shown in FIG. 4 , in one example, the computer system 203 includes at least one microprocessor 400, a memory 401, an input/output device 402, such as a keyboard and/or display, and an external interface 403, interconnected via a bus 404 as shown. In this example, the external interface 403 can be utilised for connecting the computer system 203 to peripheral devices, such as the communications networks 202, 204, databases 211, other storage devices, or the like. Although a single external interface 403 is shown, this is for the purpose of example only, and in practice multiple interfaces using various methods (e.g. Ethernet, serial, USB, wireless or the like) may be provided.
In use, the microprocessor 400 executes instructions in the form of applications software stored in the memory 401 to allow communication with the base station 201, for example to allow an operator to provide control inputs.
Accordingly, it will be appreciated that the computer systems 203 may be formed from any suitable processing system, such as a suitably programmed PC, Internet terminal, lap-top, hand-held PC, smart phone, PDA, web server, or the like. Thus, in one example, the processing system 100 is a standard processing system such as a 32-bit or 64-bit Intel Architecture based processing system, which executes software applications stored on non-volatile (e.g. hard disk) storage, although this is not essential. However, it will also be understood that the computer systems 203 can be any electronic processing device such as a microprocessor, microchip processor, logic gate configuration, firmware optionally associated with implementing logic such as an FPGA (Field Programmable Gate Array), or any other electronic device, system or arrangement.
Examples of the operation of the system to generate mappings, allow browsing, indexing of and interaction with ontologies, including aligning and pruning ontologies will now be described in further detail.
For the purpose of these examples, it is assumed that the processing system 210 of the base station 201 hosts applications software for performing the processes, with actions performed by the processing system 210 being performed by the processor 300 in accordance with instructions stored as applications software in the memory 301 and/or input commands received from a user via the I/O device 302, or commands received from the computer system 203. In this regard, for the purpose of the following examples, the processing system 210 executes applications software having a number of modules including an indexer module, a browser module, an aligner module, a pruner module, a semantic matcher module and an ETL module. However, the use of respective modules is not essential and other arrangements can be used.
It will also be assumed that the user interacts with applications software executed by the processing system 210 via a GUI, or the like, presented either on the input/output device 302 or the computer system 203. Actions performed by the computer system 203 are performed by the processor 400 in accordance with instructions stored as applications software in the memory 401 and/or input commands received from a user via the I/O device 402. The base station 201 is typically a server which communicates with the computer system 203 via the particular network infrastructure available, and may for example be in the form of an enterprise server that interacts with a database 211 for users of one or more computer systems 203.
However, it will be appreciated that the above described configurations are for the purpose of example only and are not intended to be limiting, so in practice any database management system can be used. It will also be appreciated that the partitioning of functionality between the computer system 203, and the base station 201 may vary, depending on the particular implementation.
An overview of the process for determining a mapping and using this to transfer content from a source to a target will now be described with reference to FIG. 5 . For the purpose of this example it will be assumed that the processing system 210 implements a number of different modules for providing different functionalities.
In this example, at step 500, the processing system 210 identifies source and target ontologies using the source and target data structures. This can be achieved in any manner, but typically involves creating a putative ontology based on the source and target data structures for source and target data stores. For example, the names of the different source and target data fields could be equated to ontology terms, with relationships between the ontology terms being identified from the relationships in the source and target data structures. A specific example of the process of generating putative ontologies will be described in more detail with reference to FIG. 6 .
At step 510, the indexer module determines an index of source and target ontologies. The index is typically in the form of a list including an entry indicative of each ontology term, an associated ontology term type if this is known, and also optionally an ontology term meaning. In this regard, the ontology term meanings are typically determined by the semantic matcher module at step 520 that compares the ontology term to a concept matching database, and uses the results of the comparison to identify a meaning for each ontology term in the index.
At step 530, the browser module is used to browse an ontology and select source or target ontology terms. This allows a user to select those ontology terms that are of interest, typically corresponding to content to be extracted from the source data store or imported into the target data store.
The selected ontology terms can then be used at step 540 to allow the browser module to generate code for interacting with content stored in a data store in accordance with the respective data structure. In particular, this can include code for allowing a computer system to generate a user interface which the user can use to review data fields of the data structure, select content to be extracted/imported and then generate the necessary queries to perform the extraction/importation, as will be described in more detail below.
Alternatively, at step 550, the selected ontology terms are used by the pruner module to prune either the source and/or target ontology. In particular, this allows the user to select only those parts of the ontology that are of interest, with the processing system 210 then selecting additional ontology terms required to maintain relationships between the selected ontology terms as will be described in more detail below.
Once one or more of the ontologies have been pruned, at step 560, the processing system 210 uses the aligner module to align the source and target ontologies. This identifies a correspondence between one or more of the source ontology terms and one or more of the target ontology terms, thereby allowing a mapping between the source and target data structures to be determined at step 570, which in turn can be used together with code generated by the browser module to transfer content from the source data store to the target data store.
An example of the process for generating a putative ontology from a data structure, such as a database schema or the like, will now be described with reference to FIG. 6 .
Whilst this example is specific to generating a putative ontology for a relational database, it will be appreciated that similar concepts can be applied to other data structures, and that this example is for the purpose of illustration only and is not intended to be limiting.
In this example, at step 600, the processing system 210 determines each table in the database, typically by extracting this information from metadata defining the database schema. At step 610, the processing system 210 defines a class corresponding to each table in the database. In this regard, the term class refers to a specific ontology term corresponding to a concept within the ontology, as will be described in more detail below.
At step 620, the processing system 210 identifies any database tables having a BOM (Bill Of Materials) structure or a Type structure. In this regard, a BOM table has two “one to many” relationships and is used to list of all parts constituting an item, object or article. The Type structure has one “many to one” relationship and has only one relevant attribute or column which is used to limit the range of values in the related table. Such tables are often used to denormalise data and can therefore contain many concepts or classes that should each represent a respective ontology term. Accordingly, at step 630, the processing system expands each Type table and each BOM table to define further classes corresponding to each unique entry in the table.
At step 640, the processing system 210 optionally displays each identified class from within the Type or BOM table, allowing a user to confirm whether the class should be retained at step 650. If it is indicated that the Type or BOM class should not be retained, it is removed at step 660.
Once the relevant BOM classes have been selected, the processing system 210 defines relationships and attributes (also referred to as data objects and data properties) based on the database schema. Thus, the table structure can be used to identify relationships between the identified classes, whilst data fields in the tables are used to identify attributes of the classes. The relationships and attributes are in turn used to define object properties and data properties in the ontology, thereby allowing the putative ontology to be generated and saved, for example in an ontology database at step 680.
Thus, this allows a putative ontology to be created in a substantially automated fashion solely from an analysis of the data structure of a data store, such as a database, structured file, or the like. Following this, in the event that it is required to define meanings for the different classes within the putative ontology, the putative ontology can be aligned with a formalised ontology, as will be described in more detail below.
An example of the process for generating an index will now be described with reference to FIG. 7 .
In this example, at step 700 the indexer module determines an ontology of interest. This may be determined based on user input commands, for example supplied via the browser module, or could be received from another module requiring an index. For example, an ETL module that has generated a putative ontology may require this be indexed and provide an indication of the ontology to the indexer module, or alternatively, a pruner module may request an index allowing pruning to be performed on an ontology.
At step 705, the indexer module compares the ontology to one or more existing indexes, typically stored in an index database, and determines if an index already exists. This can be achieved by comparing metadata associated with the ontology, such as an ontology name and/or address, with corresponding information associated with the indexes, or alternatively by comparing one or more ontology terms to ontology terms in existing indexes.
If it is determined that an index exists at step 710, then the index is provided at step 715, for example by providing the index to the module that requested the index. Otherwise, the index must be generated, in which case the indexer module selects a next ontology term at step 720, and then creates an index entry including an indication of the ontology term name, an ontology term type and an ontology term address, typically indicative of a URI (Uniform Resource Identifier) or similar, at step 725. At step 730, the indexer module obtains a semantic meaning for the ontology term from a semantic matcher module, as will be described in more detail below, and adds this to the index entry.
At step 735, the indexer module determines if all ontology terms have been completed and if not the process returns to step 720, allowing a next ontology term to be selected. Otherwise, at step 740, the index is stored and optionally provided to another module.
An example of a process for browsing of an ontology will now be described with reference to FIG. 8 .
In this example, at step 800, the browser module generates an ontology term list for a selected ontology, using an ontology index. Accordingly, as part of this process, the browser module can request the ontology index from the indexer module, for example based on the identity of a selected ontology. The ontology term list can then be displayed to a user via an appropriate GUI (graphical user interface).
A step 805, the user tags one or more ontology terms of interest, before selecting a next ontology term to view at step 810 allowing the browser module to display a ontology term screen including data properties for the selected ontology term at step 815. In this regard, the data properties correspond to attributes of the ontology term, which are defined as part of the ontology.
At step 820, the browser module determines if a search option has been selected by the user, in which case the user enters search terms in the data fields of the data properties at step 825. The browser module then generates and performs a query of data associated with the respective ontology term data properties, returning and displaying results to the user at step 830. Thus, this process allows the user to review the content that would be associated with respective data properties in the corresponding source or target data store, thereby allowing the user to ascertain whether the ontology term and associated data properties are of interest.
Once the search has been performed, or in the event that no search is performed, the user tags one or more data properties of interest at step 835. Thus, this process allows the user to review the ontology terms and associated data properties and then select ontology terms and data properties of interest by tagging them.
At step 840, the ontology terms are reviewed to determine if all ontology terms and data properties of interest to the user have been selected. If not, the process returns to step 810 allowing further ontology terms to be reviewed.
Otherwise, at step 845 the browser module selects the tagged ontology terms and associated data properties, allowing these to be used in other processes, such as to perform pruning at step 850 or to generate an application at step 855. In this regard, generation of an application involves uses scripts or the like to generate executable code, that when executed on a computer system allows the computer system to display a user interface for interacting with content in fields in the source or target corresponding to the selected ontology terms or data properties, as will be described in more detail below.
Thus, the above described process can be used to allow a user to browse ontology terms and associated data properties to identify which of those are of interest in respect of the content they wish to export from a source or import into a target.
An example of the process for pruning an ontology will now be described with reference to FIG. 9 .
In this example, at step 900, the selected ontology terms are added as seeds for the pruning process. Following this, an iterative process is performed to repeatedly explore ontology terms related to the seed ontology terms until a path is identified that interconnects the seed ontology terms. To achieve this, at step 905, different types of relationships and associated default path lengths are displayed. In this regard, ontology terms can be related by different types of relationships, such as parent, child, sibling, or the like. As certain types of relationship may be more important than others, different relationship types may have different lengths. Additionally, the length of path that is explored for each type of relationship can be varied thereby ensuring that a larger number of ontology terms connected to the seed ontology terms via the more important relationships are included. Accordingly, at step 910, the user can adjust the path lengths for the different relationships, thereby allowing the pruning process to be tailored by the user, for example to control the extent and/or direction of pruning.
At step 915, ontology terms related to the selected ontology terms are determined, by identifying those ontology terms related by relationships of the specified path length. At step 920, the pruner module determines if the selected seed terms are linked. In other words there is a series of interconnected ontology terms that links the seed ontology terms, and if so, the pruning process can end with the selected and related ontology terms identified being used the define the pruned ontology at step 925, which can be stored as a pruned ontology or pruned index.
Otherwise, at step 930 it is determined if the iterations are complete, and if not the related ontology terms are added the selected ontology terms and the process returns to step 915, allowing further related ontology terms to be identified. Thus, the number of ontology terms related to the seed ontology terms is gradually increased until the seed ontology terms are connected by a path of relationships.
Thus, the above described process is repeated either until the ontology is successfully pruned, at which time the seed ontology terms are interconnected via a path of related ontology terms, or until a predetermined number of iterations are completed and no path is identified, in which case the process is halted at step 940. In this latter case, this typically suggests that the ontology terms are from different ontologies, in which case the pruning process is performed in conjunction with an alignment process, allowing the pruning process to span multiple ontologies as will be described in more detail below. Alternatively, this indicates that the ontology terms cannot be easily linked.
An example of the process for aligning source and target ontologies will now be described with reference to FIG. 10 .
In this example, at step 1000 source and/or target ontology terms are selected using the index. This may involve having the user select ontology terms using the browser module, or more typically select two pruned ontologies corresponding to pruned versions of source and target ontologies that contain source and/or ontology terms of interest. At step 1005, the matcher module is used to determine a matching score for different combinations of pairs of source and target ontology terms. These scores are used to define preliminary alignments solely based on how similar the meanings of the source and target ontologies are at step 1010.
At step 1015, the aligner module examines relationships (object properties) and attributes (data properties) of the source and target ontology terms to determine whether the preliminary alignments are correct. Thus, for example, this will examine if preliminary aligned source and target ontology terms have similar number of attributes, and also if these have similar relationships with other source or target ontology terms. This can be used to identify inexact matches, for example if each of the terms first name and last name may be preliminary matched to name, with the examination of the relationships being used to demonstrate this should be a many to one relationship.
At step 1020, this can be used to refine the alignments, allowing these to be stored to represent the alignment between the source and target ontologies at step 1025. This can be in the form of a merged ontology, or alternatively an alignment index.
An example of a semantic matching process will now be described with reference to FIG. 11 .
In this example, at step 1100, the matcher module receives ontology terms for matching. This could be based on user selection via the browser module, but more typically is by receiving terms from the indexer module or the aligner module. At step 1105, a next pair combination is selected, either by comparing a single ontology term to a plurality of respective terms in a matching database, or by selecting a next pair of received source and target ontology terms.
At step 1110, the semantic matcher module calculates a semantic similarity using a concept matching database. The score can be determined in any one of a number of manners, but typically involves applying a predetermined formula that calculates a score based on whether the meanings are in any way related, such as whether they are antonyms, synonyms, or the like. In one particular example, this involves matching ontology terms with definitions, for example using a dictionary, such as WordNet, or the like. In this regard, WordNet is a large lexical database of English. Nouns, verbs, adjectives and adverbs are grouped into sets of cognitive synonyms (synsets), each expressing a distinct concept and is described in Fellbaum, Christiane (2005). WordNet and wordnets. In: Brown, Keith et al. (eds.), Encyclopedia of Language and Linguistics, Second Edition, Oxford: Elsevier, 665-670.
Once a definition has been identified, this is expressed in terms of RDF triples, which are then stored in a database. The RDF triples for two different meanings can then be queried to determine a similarity between the triples, which is used to determine a similarity score indicative of the similarity of the meaning of the two ontology terms.
Following this, at step 1115, the semantic matcher module determines whether the terms are related by subclass and superclass arrangements. This information is then combined with the similarity score to calculate a matching score at step 1120. At step 1125, it is determined if all pairs are completed and if not the process returns to step 1105 allowing a next pair of source and target ontologies to be selected and a matching score is calculated. Once all potential pairs of ontology terms or ontology terms and matching concepts in the database have been checked, the semantic matcher module can select the best match and then provide an indication of this at step 1130.
Accordingly, it will be appreciated that the above described processes allow users to interact with ontologies, select ontology terms of interest and use this to generate software for interacting with content stored in a data store, such as a database or XML file, in accordance with a respective ontology. The users can further investigate the ontology and then prune this using a pruner module, allowing a minimal ontology to be determined which allows the user to interact with content of interest. The pruned ontology can then be aligned with another pruned ontology, so that this can be used to define a mapping therebetween, which can in turn be used to transfer data between data stores having a source and target data structure.
A more specific example will now be described. For the purpose of this example, an ontology is defined as follows:
A set of related Concepts, also called Classes or Objects, some of which are related to each other using sub/super class relationships also called ‘inheritance’ relationships. Examples are ‘Organisation’, ‘Company’, ‘Club’ which display inheritance and ‘Land Mass’, ‘Gender’, ‘Person’ which do not display inheritance.
A set of Object Properties, which provide an additional mechanism for relating Classes. For example ‘is Located at/in’ ‘has Gender’. These relationships allow inferencing of concepts, relationships and properties.
A set of Data Properties associated with each Class. For example the class “Person” may have Data Properties of Name, Title, Date-of-Birth, and Gender.
A set of axioms providing a formulaic relationship between any of the preceding properties. For example, “if a Person has a Title of ‘Mrs’ then the gender must be female” or “if two objects have the same unique identifier then they are the same object”. These axioms allow further inferencing of concepts, relationships and properties.
An ontology can be described in a number of languages such as RDFS, XML, DAML, OIL, N3 and OWL. These languages may have different dialects such as OWL-Lite or OWL-DL. From a functionality perspective they differ in their ability to manage and describe complex relationships and axioms.
An ontology may contain hundreds of thousands of concepts. A user may be interested in a subset of these concepts. This subset may be from:
a single ontology;
multiple overlapping ontologies; or
multiple disparate ontologies.
Some concepts in a target ontology may not be pre-defined, and may not exist in any of the source ontologies. In such a case the user may need to manually add the missing concepts. The required subset may have both or either starting and ending concepts
For the purpose of illustration two extremely simple example ontologies are shown in FIGS. 12A and 12B. It will be appreciated that these are utilised to illustrate the processes of indexing, pruning semantic matching and alignment and are not intended to be limiting.
In these examples, there are two types of relationships, those which are hierarchically connected and those which are not. In these examples, hierarchically connected classes are represented by solid ellipses, which are hierarchically connected by solid lines pointing from the superclass to the subclass. Each subclass inherits all the properties of its superclass. The non-hierarchically connected set of classes, shown as broken ellipses, are connected to any class by a named Object Property line shown here as a dashed line. Each class has a set of data properties some of which are shown in Table 1 for illustration.
TABLE 1
Class Name 1	Data Property 1	Class Name 2	Data Property 2
Party 1.0	Name	Client 2.0	Name
Individual 1.1	First Name	Person 2.1	Given Name
Last Name		Family Name
Date of Birth		Date of Birth
Gender		Gender
Organisation 1.2	Date of Incorporation	Organisation 2.2	Date of Incorporation
or founding		or founding
Club 1.3	Type	Club 2.3	Type
Company 1.4	Type	Company 2.4	Type
Registered in/on	Listed Company 2.5	Stock Exchange
Unlisted Company	Registered in
2.6
Qango 2.7	Ministry
Member 1.5	Type	Membership 2.8	Type
Joined Date		Joined Date
Exit Date		Exit Date
Employment 1.6	Role	Work History 2.9	Role
Start Date		Start Date
End Date		End Date
Reports to		Reports to
Shares 1.7	Purchase Date	Shares 2.10	Purchase Date
Number		Number
Type		Type
It will be appreciated that the ontologies show similar concepts, but that there are some differences.
Some concepts have different names. Can we say that a ‘Party’ is identical to a ‘Client’, a ‘Person’ is identical to an ‘Individual’, ‘Member’ to ‘Membership’ and ‘Employment’ to ‘Work History’?
In each case except ‘Employment’, the classes each have identical Data Properties so we can assume that they are nearly identical. Mathematically the Sameness(C1i, C2i) ˜1.0 where C1i is a concept from the first ontology and C2i is a concept from the second ontology.
Some Concepts have different Data Properties. In the case of ‘Employment’ and ‘Work History’ they have some identical Data Properties and one, ‘Reports To’, which applies only to ‘Work History’. In fact ‘Work History’ violates 4th Normal Form as it is ambiguous as to whether the ‘Start Date’ and ‘End Date’ refer to the ‘Role’ or the ‘Reports To’ Data Property
Some Concepts have different Object Properties. ‘Work History’ has two Object Properties with ‘Person’, whereas ‘Employment’ has only one. In Ontology 1 ‘Shares’ relates ‘Company’ to ‘Individual’ whereas in Ontology 2 it relates ‘Company’ to ‘Client’.
Some Concepts do not exist in one Ontology. ‘Listed Company’ exists in Ontology 2 but not in Ontology 1.
For the purpose of these examples, the system performs the functionality shown in FIG. 13 , with these being implemented by respective modules. In this regard the modules include:
ETL (Extraction-Transformation-Loading) module 1300. This extracts, transforms and loads content within structured data sources. This includes two sub-components, including:
Processor 1301 that extracts source data either via a specified ontology, or, in the absence of an ontology, via a putative ontology which the Processor creates to describe the data. The Processor can be deployed either in the Cloud or on the same machine as the data or on a machine which can access the data via messaging, ODBC, https, SOAP or any equivalent protocol. Multiple copies of the Processor can be deployed in order to obtain data from multiple sources.
Orchestrator 1302 that collects data from the various Processors and maps the source ontologies to the target ontology. Queries are written using the target ontology and are translated into equivalent source ontology queries, allowing data to be returned using the target ontology.
Ontology Browser module 1310 including a browser 1311, editor 1312 and generator 1313. This generates screens and the associated software and data to manage them, which enables a user to browse and edit an ontology and the data described by the ontology. These screens appear in two stages. The first stage is during the generation process. In this stage the screens are dynamically created and display additional information to enable the user to select which features are to be generated. In the second stage the screens are hard coded and only display the information specified for generation.
Ontology Indexer module 1320. The Indexer module creates a set of linked indexes on one or more ontologies, of all the class names, data property names and, object property names. Additionally the index includes semantically equivalent terms (synonyms and homonyms for example) which come from the source ontologies plus from a semantic equivalence function.
Ontology Pruner module 1330. The Pruner module takes an ontology and allows a user to specify which classes, data properties, object properties and axioms they wish to retain. Using those retained the Pruner module checks to see that the relational and axiomatic integrity defined in the ontology is maintained.
Ontology Aligner module 1340. The Aligner module takes two or more ontologies and uses a number of techniques to align the concepts in the various ontologies, either with each other or with a specified target ontology. The techniques utilise the indexes created by the indexer module to find concepts which are semantically similar. Each data property and concept is compared using the semantic matcher module. It refines the matching based upon the ontology structure and the data properties.
Semantic Matcher module 1350. The matcher module compares two terms or two lists of terms to determine whether they have a mathematically defined degree of semantic equivalence within a specified context, for example medicine or engineering, or, in another instance, given a single term, will provide a list of synonyms, homonyms, etcetera based upon a specified context.
Typically an ontology does not have any data instances except as examples, however an ontology can be matched to existing data in one of two ways:
The ontology is constructed from the existing data. For example a relational database could be automatically converted to a ‘putative’ ontology by relational Entities (tables) being defined as ontological Classes, relational Relationships as ontological Object Properties, and relational Attributes (columns) as ontological Data Properties. Some ontological axioms could be derived from relational referential integrity constraints, but most axioms would need to be manually added or ignored. This putative ontology may then be aligned with an existing rich ontology to add metadata.
Matching the ontology to the data. There are a number of tools for doing this (e.g. S-Match).
Regardless of the data format a putative ontology can be automatically generated from the source data using methods appropriate to the source data structure and metadata (if it exists). This putative ontology may be manually updated using the ontology editor, or used as generated. In either case the putative ontology is then aligned using the aligner module with a subject area ontology (invoked by the ETL module processor) and with the target ontology (invoked by the ETL module orchestrator).
The target ontology may be pruned using the pruner module, to ensure that it contains only the desired concepts plus those concepts, axioms, properties, inferences and provenance details which are required to ensure the integrity of the desired concepts.
All these tools make use of the services provided by the semantic matcher module to check if two semantic concepts match, and the indexer module to look for matching concepts and conceptual structures in the various source and target ontologies.
Examples of the respective modules will now be described in further detail.
ETL Module
The ELT module performs the functions of data extraction, transformation and loading common to all ETL tools without the use of a metadata repository. It does this by using metadata associated with the source data to determine data structure and then by mapping this metadata to an ontology. It also assigns meaning to the data and hence is able to achieve a high level of automation in mapping and transforming the data.
Eliminating the need for a metadata repository means that the flexibility of the processes is not constrained by the human interface required to maintain it. New data formats and technologies can be automatically accommodated.
At a high level there are two major processes performed. The code to perform these processes is called the processor and the orchestrator. Numerous copies of the processor may be deployed to read data at any defined location. The processor can be co-located on the same device as the data or it can be located in the cloud and access the data using a remote access protocol. The processor extracts metadata from the source and creates a putative ontology from that metadata. It then performs some elementary data transformations and passes the data and the ontology to the orchestrator.
The orchestrator receives input from the various processors and aligns their ontologies. It then applies a mapping from the aligned source ontologies to the user defined target ontology. The user can now see all the data from the various source ontologies. Data can be extracted either by specifying a specific query against the target ontology or by using the ontology browser module to create the query, as will be described in more detail below.
An example ETL module software stack including the various software components which are required to achieve this outcome are shown in FIG. 14A, whilst FIG. 14B shows an example deployment in which a number of processors are coupled to a single orchestrator via a network arrangement.
The processor is responsible for reading data from disparate data source, exposing the data as RDF and creating a putative ontology to describe the data. The high level functions are as follows:
Register disparate data sources by adding metadata and mapping files.
Convert unstructured data into RDF.
Load RDF into triple-store.
Convert the mapping files into putative ontologies.
Expose a SPAQRL endpoint for each source.
The orchestrator is responsible for reading target ontologies and mapping files and orchestrating the transformation of request and response. The high level functions are as follows:
Register target ontologies.
Read mapping files and index them.
Transform SPARQL queries from target to mapped source vocabularies.
Transform Response from source to target vocabularies.
Store transformation rules.
Expose a SPARQL endpoint for the target.
Ontology Browser Module
The ontology browser module operates to automatically create a set of screens to enable a user to browse an ontology, query data defined by an ontology and add instance data to data defined by an ontology. The screens thus generated can then be used independently of the ontology and the creating tools, as a complete stand-alone application.
In this regard, currently the use of ontologies to define linked concepts and to access data is largely confined to academics and professional ontologists. The reason for this is that there is no simple mechanism for allowing users to browse ontologies, and then use this in guiding their interaction with data stored in structured data stores. Accordingly, by providing a tool that enables a person with little or no ontological expertise to access all the details of an ontology in a simple comprehensible fashion, this allows the user to select and inspect the data described by the ontology using a simplified query construction mechanism. They will be able to add records to the data with all the constraints and inferences which exist in the original ontology still being enforced. Finally they will be able to deploy the generated screens as stand-alone applications suitable for use by front-office personnel.
When inspecting the data, the user can display it in a number of formats. The underlying data can be stored as RDF Triples, for example. These can be displayed as relational tables, spread sheets, name-value pairs or any user defined format.
The ontology browser module can exist in two major forms, either as a stand-alone tool, or second as a plug-in to existing ontology tools (such as Protégé). In either form it can generate an application specific to the ontology selected.
The generated application can be used without the ontology as a full function code-set for accessing, updating, deleting and adding records with all the data rules defined in the original ontology being enforced.
Thus, the ontology browser module provides a set of processes which can be implemented in a computer program which generates screens and the associated software and data to manage them which enables a user to browse and edit an ontology and the data described by the ontology. These screens appear in two stages. The first stage is during the generation process. In this stage the screens are dynamically created and display additional information to enable the user to select which features are to be generated. In the second stage the screens are hard coded and only display the information specified for generation.
A brief description of the screens is set out in Table 2 below.
TABLE 2
#	Screen Title	User Story	Notes	
1	Landing Page	The user will first access the ‘landing	This is the entry point for
page’ which will have the capability of	this application. It could be
listing the available ontologies. The	done in an object oriented
user will select an ontology. Having	fashion. This screen is not
selected the ontology the tool will	generated in the
generate the screens to manage that	deployable code.
ontology.
2	Class List	Having selected an ontology the user	Each list item could include
will be presented with a list of classes	a label to help in
in the chosen ontology. The User will	identification.
select one class as the entry point to	This screen is generated in
the ontology.	the deployable code. It
would be the entry point for
the deployable code.
3	Class Display	All the data property fields for the class	A screen or a set of related
are displayed in the main frame, along	screens is generated in the
with four additional frames which are:	deployable code, as a
 The parent/super classes of	screen or set of screens
 the selected class-a clickable link	specific to each class.
 utilising super class relationships.	Class specific screens can
 The child/sub classes of the	be generated using a
 selected class-a clickable link	number of templating tools
 utilising subclass relationships.	to ensure that a particular
 The related classes of the	look and feel is generated.
 selected class-a clickable link using
 Object Property details.
 The axioms which impact that
 class. This frame is only displayed
 during the generation process. In
 the generated screens axioms are
 not displayed except as an error
 message if invalid data is entered.
The field names on the screen are
displayed with an adjacent data entry
field which is blank when browsing an
ontology.
Editing mechanisms are provided to
select the classes and properties for
the screens which are to be generated.
Fields can be marked ‘non-searchable’
to control resource usage.
4	Query	A query is performed by adding data
into a data property field in one or
more class screens. Additional
constraints can be defined by the user.
Once the query has been defined the
user selects a ‘Search’ option and the
records meeting the search criteria are
returned.
These screens are available without generation in a generic format such that a single screen is used for each type of screen. The screen layout is dynamically determined by the ontology content.
Generic screens are not user friendly and cannot be customised. Therefore the process allows the user to generate a complete set of screens whose look and feel can be parametrically predetermined using facilities such as cascading style sheets, Templates, icons and user supplied parameters.
An example of the arrangement of the browser module is shown in FIG. 15 .
In this regard, the browser module 1310 takes a target ontology 1501 from the orchestrator 1302, or any ontology defined by the user. The Browser module 1310 displays the set of screens 1502 which allowing the user to browse the ontology and to specify which components of the ontology to generate into a standalone application.
The browser module 1302 generates a standalone application 1503 including a set of computer screens 1504 to manage the data using the structure and rules specified in the target ontology. The application can be generated in a number of modes, such as purely an ontology or data browser module, or as a full function data add, update and delete application. In this case the user now has a complete application 1503 to manage the data described by the ontology.
Ontologies using OWL or RDF files have enough information to generate web pages and create a corresponding database 1505 to store the information. The RDF or OWL file may have been created by an ontologist based upon their detailed business knowledge.
Thus the browser module 1310 creates an application 1503 for end users to query or enter transaction data. The OWL or RDFS file is fed into the browser module 1310 along with application customisation files, database connection details and any other metadata required to create the application.
The browser module 1310 can create web pages, for example using HTML5, JSP, JSF or any similar technology. For each class in the ontology browser module 1310 creates a web page and each property associated with that class is created as a field within the page. The application 1503 bridges between the generated webpages and the database 1505. It performs the processes to persist the data from the web pages to the database 1505, to extract data from the database 1505, to query data in the database 1505 and to display data on the web page. The browser module 1310 then creates database scripts for creating and loading a database of the type specified in the user supplied metadata. This could be a relational database (RDBMS), a Triple Store, NOSQL, NewSQL, Graph Database or any other recognised database.
Operation of the browser module will now be described in more detail. In this regard, in order to browse an ontology a user must be able to find ontology terms:
concepts;
data properties;
object properties; and
inferences.
This requires two mechanisms, namely:
a method for indexing the above ontology terms from an ontology, in order to search for any such ontology term by name, as described with respect to the indexer module below; and
a method for displaying all the related data and object properties once a particular property has been chosen.
To achieve this, the user initially selects the ontology to be browsed in the ‘Landing screen’ described in Table 2. The ontology can be selected from a file or a Web address. Once the ontology has been selected a class list is generated using an index of the ontology. This list displays the name and description of each class. For larger lists a list search function is provided enabling the user to search by class name or part of a class description. It is also possible to search on a data property. In either case the search would return a list of classes which contain that data property.
The user then selects the class of interest, which causes a ‘Class screen’ to be displayed including four components, in the form of frames or tagged sub-screens, as follows:
The Data Property Component. The name of each data property is displayed in a list format with a description box beside the field. Clicking on an information icon beside the field will display all the field attributes and any axioms related to that field. Optionally (clickable), data properties of a parent/super or related class or classes may also be shown.
The parent/super Class Component. This displays the name and description of the parent/super class of the displayed class, with a clickable link to it. Clicking on this link will cause the browser module to display a screen displaying the Parent of the current class.
The child/sub Class Component. This displays the name and description of the subclasses of the displayed class, with a clickable link utilising subclass relationships. Clicking on one of these links will cause the browser module to display a Child/sub class or subclass of the current class.
The Object Property Component. This displays the related Classes of the selected class, each with a clickable link using the object property. Clicking on one of these links will cause the browser module to display a class related to the current class.
By selecting a ‘Search’ option on a class screen a query is issued to return all the data instances for that class. This is displayed as a list with one row for each instance of the class. By clicking on a particular row, that row is displayed as a formatted screen similar to the ontology class screen. In one example, the data returned maybe restricted by executing a query which would filter the results. The construction and use of such a query will now be described in more detail.
In this regard, filtering the data returned to the user is achieved by capturing from the user, the user's exact requirements of the data to be returned, in the form of a filter and then generating a query based on that filter. The filter is constructed by entering values or expressions into the data property fields on a class screen. For example, using the sample ontologies described above, to find out how many shares John Doe owns, the following steps would be required.
Select the ‘Individual’ class from the class list screen.
In the Data Property fields enter ‘John’ into Given-Name and Doe′ into Last-Name.
From the Object Property frame of the ‘Individual’ class screen, select the ‘Shares’ class.
Select the Search option.
By selecting the ‘Search’ option on a Shares Class screen a query is issued to return all the data properties for that class but only those owned by John Doe. The filter has been transformed by the generated application 1503 into a SPARQL or functionally equivalent query which can be executed against the data stored in the database 1505.
To allow the browser module 1310 to generate the application 1503, the following process is performed:
Optionally configure metadata for the application to be generated including items such as:
Company name, logo etc.
Name of the application to be generated.
Name and type of database to be created.
Location of the database.
Naming and coding specification and standards for the application to be generated. This includes style sheets, Templates, Java scripts and other display specifications.
Icons to be associated with classes and actions.
Location and contact details of help desk.
Verbosity of error and log messages.
On the ‘Landing Screen’ select the ontology from which to generate, resulting in a ‘Class List’ screen being displayed by the browser module 1310.
On the Class List screen tag each class to be generated with ‘g’.
Select each class to be generated, causing the browser module 1310 to display the ‘Class Display’ screen.
On the Class Display screen all fields are initially tagged with a ‘g’. Review each data property field, each super/subclass link and each object property link to be generated, removing the tag if it is not required.
By default all fields are searchable (i.e. can be added to a filter). Adding an ‘ns’ tag to a data property field will mean that that field will be non-searchable in the generated application
There are additional field tag positions on each of the super/subclass link fields and the object property link fields. By setting an ‘I’ tag in these fields it will generate data fields from the linked class into the generated screen. These fields will be displayed as non-updateable fields.
If any fields from linked classes are to be displayed, select the linked class and tag the appropriate fields with an ‘I’.
Return to the Class Display screen and remove the tag from each axiom description if it is not to be enforced. It is important to remove fields before axioms as otherwise there may be a loss of integrity in the generated application.
Repeat steps 3-9 until all the required classes have been selected for generation.
Return to the Class List screen and selects a ‘Generate Application’ option.
The application will be generated by the browser module 1310 and saved into the location specified in the application metadata (Step 1). The database creation and load scripts will be created. Run these scripts to ready the application for use.
Accordingly, the above described browser module 1310 allows a user to browse and interact with ontologies, and then by selecting specific classes and data properties, generate an application 1503 that can be used to interact with data stored in a data store 1505 in accordance with the selected classes and data properties.
Ontology Indexer Module
The indexer module automatically creates a set of indexes of the terms used in a collection of one or more ontologies to assist a user to browse an ontology and to expedite the querying of data defined by an ontology These indexes are used by the other modules to assist in the alignment, pruning and browsing of ontologies.
The indexer module indexes one or more ontologies by creating a set of linked indexes of all the class names, data property names and object property names and relationships. The index includes semantically equivalent terms which come from the source ontologies plus from a semantic equivalence function.
An example of the functionality of the indexer will now be described with reference to FIG. 16 .
In this example, the indexer module 1320 receives an ontology 1601 from the orchestrator 1302, or any ontologies defined by the user, via a set of screens 1602, or by the processor 1301 and creates indexes 1603 of all the class names, data property names and, object property names. It will be appreciated that the screens may be generated by the browser module 1310 as previously described.
As each ontology term is indexed, synonyms of that item, obtained from the semantic matcher module 1350, using a concept matching database 1604, are also indexed. For Object Properties, the concepts linked by the object property are cross referenced in an index.
A sample of the Concept-Data Property-Object Property (CDO) index based on the example ontologies above is shown in Table 3. It should be noted that this is a display form of the index for the purpose of illustration but that in practice the index may be stored in a more complex index structure as will be described in more detail below.
TABLE 3
CDO	Type	Address
Client	Concept	Ont 2.0
Club	Concept	Ont 1.3
Club	Concept	Ont 2.3
Company	Concept	Ont 1.4
Company	Concept	Ont 2.4
Employment	Concept	Ont 1.6
Individual	Concept	Ont 1.1
Listed Company	Concept	Ont 2.5
Member	Concept	Ont 1.5
Membership	Concept	Ont 2.8
Organisation	Concept	Ont 1.2
Organisation	Concept	Ont 2.2
Party	Concept	Ont 1.0
Person	Concept	Ont 2.1
Qango	Concept	Ont 2.7
Shares	Concept	Ont 1.7
Shares	Concept	Ont 2.10
Unlisted Company	Concept	Ont 2.6
Work History	Concept	Ont 2.9
Date of Birth	Data Property	Ont 1.1
Date of Birth	Data Property	Ont 2.1
Date of Incorporation or	Data Property	Ont 1.2
founding
Date of Incorporation or	Data Property	Ont 2.2
founding
End Date	Data Property	Ont 1.6
End Date	Data Property	Ont 2.9
Exit Date	Data Property	Ont 1.6
Exit Date	Data Property	Ont 2.9
Family Name	Data Property	Ont 2.1
First Name	Data Property	Ont 1.1
Gender	Data Property	Ont 1.1
Gender	Data Property	Ont 2.1
Given Name	Data Property	Ont 2.1
Joined Date	Data Property	Ont 1.5
Joined Date	Data Property	Ont 2.8
Last Name	Data Property	Ont 1.1
Ministry	Data Property	Ont 2.7
Name	Data Property	Ont 1.0
Name	Data Property	Ont 2.0
Number	Data Property	Ont 1.7
Number	Data Property	Ont 2.10
Purchase Date	Data Property	Ont 1.7
Purchase Date	Data Property	Ont 2.10
Registered in	Data Property	Ont 2.6
Registered in/on	Data Property	Ont 1.4
Reports to	Data Property	Ont 2.9
Role	Data Property	Ont 1.6
Role	Data Property	Ont 2.9
Start Date	Data Property	Ont 1.6
Start Date	Data Property	Ont 2.9
Stock Exchange	Data Property	Ont 2.5
Type	Data Property	Ont 1.3
Type	Data Property	Ont 1.4
Type	Data Property	Ont 1.5
Type	Data Property	Ont 1.7
Type	Data Property	Ont 2.10
Type	Data Property	Ont 2.3
Type	Data Property	Ont 2.4
Type	Data Property	Ont 2.8
Employs	Inv Obj Prop	Ont 1.6
Employs	Inv Obj Prop	Ont 2.9
Has	Inv Obj Prop	Ont 1.5
Has	Inv Obj Prop	Ont 2.8
Holds	Inv Obj Prop	Ont 1.5
Holds	Inv Obj Prop	Ont 2.8
is a	Inv Obj Prop	Ont 1.0
is a	Inv Obj Prop	Ont 1.0
is a	Inv Obj Prop	Ont 1.2
is a	Inv Obj Prop	Ont 1.2
is a	Inv Obj Prop	Ont 2.0
is a	Inv Obj Prop	Ont 2.0
is a	Inv Obj Prop	Ont 2.1
is a	Inv Obj Prop	Ont 2.2
is a	Inv Obj Prop	Ont 2.2
is a	Inv Obj Prop	Ont 2.2
is a	Inv Obj Prop	Ont 2.4
is a	Inv Obj Prop	Ont 2.4
Owns	Inv Obj Prop	Ont 1.7
Owns	Inv Obj Prop	Ont 2.10
Reports to	Inv Obj Prop	Ont 2.1
Shareholder	Inv Obj Prop	Ont 1.7
Shareholder	Inv Obj Prop	Ont 2.10
Works at	Inv Obj Prop	Ont 1.6
Works at	Inv Obj Prop	Ont 2.9
Employs	Obj Property	Ont 1.4
Employs	Obj Property	Ont 2.4
Has	Obj Property	Ont 1.3
Has	Obj Property	Ont 2.3
Holds	Obj Property	Ont 1.1
Holds	Obj Property	Ont 2.1
is a	Obj Property	Ont 1.1
is a	Obj Property	Ont 1.2
is a	Obj Property	Ont 1.3
is a	Obj Property	Ont 1.4
is a	Obj Property	Ont 2.1
is a	Obj Property	Ont 2.2
is a	Obj Property	Ont 2.3
is a	Obj Property	Ont 2.4
is a	Obj Property	Ont 2.5
is a	Obj Property	Ont 2.6
is a	Obj Property	Ont 2.7
is a	Obj Property	Ont 2.7
Owns	Obj Property	Ont 1.1
Owns	Obj Property	Ont 2.0
Reports to	Obj Property	Ont 2.9
Shareholder	Obj Property	Ont 1.4
Shareholder	Obj Property	Ont 2.4
Works at	Obj Property	Ont 1.1
Works at	Obj Property	Ont 2.1
Even without the inclusion of synonyms this is an extremely useful index. For example, every concept which has the same name in two different ontologies can potentially be aligned. The Aligner module would take each such pair and compare first their Object Properties and then their Data Properties.
For example, the concept ‘Shares’ appears in both ontologies as concepts Ont 1.7 and Ont 2.10. At this level they appear to be similar (S1.7,2.10=1.0 because the names are identical) and from an indexer module point of view that is sufficient.
Further analysis could be performed by the aligner module described in more detail below. By examining the Object Properties it would find that the Object Properties are different as shown in Table 4 below. Although they match in number and Object Property name, one of the related concepts is different giving S1.7,2.10=0.8571. By examining the Data Properties we find that they have identical Data Properties giving S1.7,2.10=1.0.
The source information on which the aligner module performed the preceding calculations is all available in the indexes created by the indexer.
TABLE 4
Ontology 1	Ontology 2
Individual	Owns	Shares	Client	Owns	Shares
Company	Shareholder	Shares	Company	Shareholder	Shares
Further analysis of the other concepts using the semantic matcher module would show that an “Individual” is a subclass of “Client” hence giving S1.7,2.10=0.8→0.95. Ontology 2 is a more generic model than Ontology 1. This similarity range is adequate to establish anchor points between Shares in the two ontologies. The calculations of Si,j.are performed by the aligner module.
The relationship between concepts is extracted in the Concept to Concept (C2C) table shown in display form in Table 5, which shows how Concept C1 relates to Concept C2.
TABLE 5
Object Rel	C1	C2
Employs	Ont 1.4	Ont 1.6
Employs	Ont 2.4	Ont 2.9
has	Ont 1.3	Ont 1.5
has	Ont 2.3	Ont 2.8
Holds	Ont 1.1	Ont 1.5
Holds	Ont 2.1	Ont 2.8
is a	Ont 1.1	Ont 1.0
is a	Ont 1.2	Ont 1.0
is a	Ont 1.3	Ont 1.2
is a	Ont 1.4	Ont 1.2
is a	Ont 2.1	Ont 2.0
is a	Ont 2.2	Ont 2.0
is a	Ont 2.3	Ont 2.2
is a	Ont 2.4	Ont 2.2
is a	Ont 2.5	Ont 2.4
is a	Ont 2.6	Ont 2.4
is a	Ont 2.7	Ont 2.1
is a	Ont 2.7	Ont 2.2
Owns	Ont 1.1	Ont 1.7
Owns	Ont 2.0	Ont 2.10
Reports to	Ont 2.9	Ont 2.1
shareholder	Ont 1.4	Ont 1.7
shareholder	Ont 2.4	Ont 2.10
Works at	Ont 1.1	Ont 1.6
Works at	Ont 2.1	Ont 2.9
The indexes are constructed in multiple formats, corresponding to sorting the above tables into different sequences. The aligner module can perform many of its tasks by executing SQL queries against the indexes.
An example of the index structure will now be described in more detail. In this regard, using the semantic matcher module, a root word or lemma is determined for each synonym set. The semantic matcher module requires that the context be set in order to obtain the optimum results. In general, when constructing indexes over a number of ontologies the context of each ontology is known, narrow and related to the other ontologies of interest.
The final set of indexes is created in a multi-step process summarised below:
Extract all concepts, Object Properties and Data Properties from the ontology being indexed.
Load these values into temporary tables (CDO and C2C) with the format described in Tables 3 and 5. These tables are created or recreated empty for each ontology being indexed.
The ontology is loaded into the semantic matcher module This will examine every word semantically using any definitions contained in the ontology and comparing them with those definitions already loaded into the semantic matcher module or available from public dictionaries such as WordNet. The context is supplied by the ontology (e.g. Medical/Surgical or Geographical Location).
The semantic matcher module defines a Concept Id, a unique number corresponding to the lemma or root word for every family of synonyms.
The synonym table is then loaded with terms matching the terms in the temporary tables described above with the Concept Id.
All synonyms identified by the semantic matcher module for each term in the ontology being indexed are also loaded into the Synonym table.
The final CDO index is then created by substituting the appropriate Concept Id for each term in the CDO table.
The final C2C index is then created by substituting the appropriate Concept Id for each term in the C2C table.
The temporary (display versions) of the index are deleted.
The next ontology to be indexed is then loaded by repeating all the preceding steps.
When all the relevant ontologies have been indexed, a final pass of the synonym table against the semantic matcher module is performed in case any new synonyms have been identified during the loading process.
The indexes are loaded into an appropriate database structure and tuned for performance. Typically this will involve creating multiple database indexes over the ontology index tables.
It will be appreciated that there is no direct user interaction with his tool or with the indexes. Instead the indexer module provides a service which is used by other modules, tools or components.
Some of the services which this index can provide include the enhanced ability to:
choose the best ontology from a selection of ontologies;
align or merge multiple ontologies;
navigate an ontology;
extract synonyms;
perform semantic matching.
Ontology Pruner Module
The pruner module is designed to enable a user to take a large ontology or a collection of aligned ontologies and prune them down to the classes of interest for the user's needs, without losing integrity by inadvertently deleting a component which contains data or axioms relevant to their ontology terms of interest.
For example, issues arise when constructing and utilising a large reference ontology, such as the Foundational Model of Anatomy (FMA). In this regard, the FMA is very large and highly detailed, though also very general in nature (e.g. non-application specific). It is also rigorous in its adherence to proper modelling principles. These criteria together lend the FMA to many possible applications. However, they have also rendered it cumbersome (i.e. overly large or detailed or principled) for use by any specific application.
As a result, potential users of the FMA had requests of the following basic form, “we really like the FMA, but it is too large or too detailed for our needs, we really only need something based on subsets of the whole FMA”. The basis for division varied, application to application, but examples include:
Region-based, i.e. the brain or the abdomen.
System-based, i.e. the cardiovascular system or the skeletal system.
Granularity-based, i.e. only items visible in an x-ray or only cellular and sub-cellular components.
Though the desired ontology derivative was generally based on a subset extraction such as those above, it was then often further manipulated to better suit the needs of the application (i.e. classes added, classes removed, properties removed, properties added, etc.).
Such requests could be handled in one of three ways:
Writing procedural code specific to each new request, which is not a generic solution.
Creating views over the ontology, which needs a language for defining the desired application knowledge base (KB) (not always a proper ontology) as well as an engine that could generate the application KB from the definition and the source ontology(ies). This has problems with adding and removing properties.
Pruning the ontology to deliver a well modelled subset ontology.
Thus, there are many needs for a pruned ontology, such as relevance, performance, manageability and testability and these requirements should be met by a tool which enables a person with little or no ontological expertise to safely prune unneeded concepts. Furthermore that person should be able to select and inspect the data described by the ontology by using a simplified query construction mechanism. They then will be able to study the effects of removing components from the ontology before committing to their removal, and then save the pruned ontology as a new ontology.
For example, SNOMED-CT is a large medical ontology of medical terms used in clinical documentation. It consists of 300,000+ concepts with about 1,400,000 relationships between them. The concepts are divided into 19 functional areas. A researcher may only be interested in one of these areas, say mental health. Removing the other 18 areas would break many of the relationships between medical health terms and pharmaceutical terms. Obviously they may wish to retain these items. To do so manually would require many months of work with existing tools and would be prone to error.
As another example a user may wish to create a new ontology from components of several existing source ontologies and then add their own additions. The combined ontology would contain many irrelevant concepts which would need to be removed. For example, a parcel delivery company combining a transport ontology with a geo-location ontology to create an ontology which enables delivery routes to be determined and optimised. By combining these ontologies and adding axioms such as aeroplanes start and stop their journeys at airports, ships at ports and trains at stations, it would be possible to construct an information base covering every concept in their business model. However much of each source ontology would not be needed.
The pruned ontology definition may be used in place of a view over the complete ontology. This view could be used for a number of purposes such as access control, scope management etc.
To achieve this, the pruner module operates in conjunction with the browser module to perform the functions set out in Table 6 below.
TABLE 6
#	Title	Function	
1	Prune Single	Use the updated ontology browser module to enable the tagging of
Ontology	classes by the user in a manner which allows the creation of a
coherent, integrated subset of the ontology with all relevant object
properties, axioms and inferences from the source ontology.
2	Prune	Using the semantic matching tool and the updated the ontology
Overlapping	browser module to enable the tagging of classes in a manner which
Ontologies	allows the creation of a coherent, integrated subset of the ontology
with all relevant object properties, axioms and inferences from the
source ontologies. Include a mechanism to determine if ontologies
are in fact disparate.
3	Prune Disparate	Include a mechanism to add the necessary detail to join the
Ontologies	disparate ontologies. Then iteratively apply the mechanism above
to establish the pruned ontology.
For example-Given a geo ontology and a transport ontology
construct a journey ontology which would allow analysis of the
appropriate transport mechanisms between two locations.
The pruner module interacts with the browser module to allow a user to specify which classes, data properties, object properties and axioms of a selected ontology they wish to retain. Using those retained the pruner module checks to see that the relational and axiomatic integrity defined in the ontology is maintained.
In another version the user may specify two essential concepts within a single ontology which must be retained in the pruned ontology. The invention then maps all the conceptual relationships between classes, tagging all classes which are required to analyse the specified concept. Additional classes, object properties and axioms are then included from the source ontology to ensure the integrity of the pruned ontology.
In another version the user may specify two essential concepts from disparate ontologies which must be retained in the pruned ontology. The pruner module then attempts to map all the conceptual relationships between classes, tagging all classes which are required to analyse the specified concept. If no connecting paths are identified the software will recognise the potential impossibility of creating a pruned ontology which connects the two starting concepts. The user will be asked to:
Abandon the attempt, or
Redefine their goals and start again, or
Enlarge the scope by adding additional classes either manually or from
another ontology and start again.
Assuming success the user now has a complete ontology which is greatly reduced in size from the combined source ontologies.
An example of the arrangement of the pruner module is shown in FIG. 17A.
In this example, the pruner module 1330 opens ontologies 1701 defined in OWL and RDFS files, with the user then interacting with the pruner module 1330 via a set of screens 1702 as defined in Table 7 below, to thereby produce a pruned ontology 1703. It will be appreciated that the screens may be generated by the browser module 1310 as previously described.
TABLE 7
#	Screen Title	User Story	
1	Landing page	The user will first access the ‘landing page’ which will have the
capability of listing the available ontologies. The user will select an
ontology. Having selected the ontology the tool will generate the
screens to manage that ontology.
2	Class List	Having selected an ontology the user will be presented with a list of
classes in the chosen ontology. The User will select one class as
the entry point to the ontology
3	Class Display	All the data property fields for the class are displayed in the main
frame, along with four additional frames which are:
  The parent/super classes of the selected class-a clickable
  link utilising super class relationships.
  The child/sub classes of the selected class-a clickable link
  utilising subclass relationships.
  The related classes of the selected class-a clickable link
  using Object Property details.
  The axioms which impact that class.
The field names on the screen are displayed with an adjacent data
entry field which is blank when browsing an ontology.
Editing mechanisms are provided to select the classes and
properties for the screens which are to be retained in the pruned
ontology.
When pruning a single ontology this is a tool assisted manual process, as will now be described with reference to FIG. 17B.
In this example, the user selects the concepts that they require and the tool identifies and adds the components required for completeness and integrity. The user selects a class as a starting seed point S0 in the source ontology and tags it as K0 for keep.
The computer identifies and tags as ‘K1’ all parents of classes marked ‘K0’, all classes and inferences from classes and inferences tagged as K0. These tagged variables are called the S1-shell. The user reviews the computer tagged items and retags them as K1 for Keep, M1 for Maybe and D1 for Discard. All axioms are loaded for the tagged Mi and Ki components. The process is then repeated, incrementing i each time until the user has tagged all the components for the appropriate ontology.
A reasoner is then applied to the resulting ontology to identify potential errors and add inferred values. Any concepts, inferences or axioms thus added are tagged Kn and the tagged components are exported as the pruned ontology.
For multiple overlapping ontologies, the process is as shown in FIG. 17C.
In this example, the user selects a class as a starting seed point S0 in one ontology and another as ending seed point E0 in either the same or another ontology and tags them both as K for Keep with ‘K0s’ or ‘K0e’.
The computer identifies and tags as ‘K1s’ or ‘K1e’ all parents of classes marked ‘K0x’, and all subclasses and inferences from classes and inferences tagged as ‘Knx’ where n=1. These tagged variables are called the S1-shell and the E1-shell. The variables in the S and E shells are compared by the semantic matcher module described in more detail below. The matcher module returns a numeric value for the match quality between variables in each shell. If the predetermined match quality is met then a path has been determined between the two shells. This should only occur of the shells overlap. If the start and end point are in the same ontology the match quality must be 1.0 or exact.
At any stage, the data properties of a tagged data class may be pruned. This is performed by selecting the class and marking the data fields (data properties) as ‘D’ for Discard. Any inferences based upon the existence of the discarded field will be ignored.
These steps are iterated, incrementing n by 1 each time until a predetermined number of variables have appropriate match quality or a predefined depth of shell is reached. The shell paths of the matching variables are tagged ‘Pjx’. If the predefined depth of shell is reached without establishing any paths then the process has failed and the ontologies are considered disparate. The process stops. At this point it is possible to increase the predefined shell depth, and to manually change the tag of any concepts which are considered out of scope from K to D for Discard. The process can be restarted.
Once these have been established, the paths Pj between S0 and E0 can be populated and a skeletal pruned ontology can be defined in terms of these paths. All class parents and inferred parents for tagged Pj path components are also tagged as belonging to the path p. All axioms are loaded for the tagged p path components thus creating an expanded ontology.
A reasoner is applied to the expanded ontology to identify potential errors and add inferred values. Any concepts, inferences or axioms thus added are tagged and exported as part of the pruned ontology.
For disparate ontologies the process is as shown in FIG. 17D. In this regard, disparate ontologies can arise for two possible reasons:
the user did not realise that they were disparate until they attempted to align them or to extract a subset ontology from concepts in the two ontologies. This is a potential failed outcome of the previous section; or
the user knows that they are disparate and is supplying concepts and properties to enable them to join.
In either case, the user must supply the information to enable the ontologies to be joined. This is effectively the starting point for the process.
The user selects a class as a starting seed point S0 in one ontology and another as ending seed point E0 in the other ontology and tags them both as K for Keep with ‘K0s’ or ‘K0e’. In addition they define a set of user defined paths which connect the ontologies, as shown by the lines 1710.
These paths have start and end points ‘U0Si’ and ‘U0Ei’ where ‘i’ is the path number being defined. These paths form a contiguous set of related concepts, starting with a class in one ontology and ending with a class in another ontology.
The process described above for overlapping ontologies then applied to each concept pair S0 and ‘U0si’ and E0 and ‘U0Ei’ to establish paths Psi and Pei between the starting/end points and the user defined concepts ‘i’. Once these have been established, the paths Pi between S0 and E0 can be populated and a skeletal pruned ontology can be defined in terms of these paths. All class parents and inferred parents for tagged Pi path components are also tagged as belonging to the path Pi. All axioms are loaded for the tagged Pi path components. This is called the expanded ontology.
A reasoner is applied to the expanded ontology to identify potential errors and add inferred values. Any concepts, inferences or axioms thus added are included in the pruned ontology 1711, which can now be exported.
When a concept is selected by the user as the starting point for pruning it is necessary to determine which additional concepts should be included. There are a number of algorithms base on Object Properties and Data Properties which are applied to make this determination. In this regard, object properties have the following attributes:
They name a relationship between two concepts.
The relationship has a direction. This is defined as from a ‘Domain’ concept to a ‘Range’ concept. In relational database terminology, the primary key of a Domain becomes a foreign key in a Range.
Optionally the relationship has a type, including:
Functional;
Inverse Functional;
Transitive;
Symmetric;
Asymmetric;
Reflexive;
Irreflexive.
Also the super/sub class relationship is equivalent to a special case of an object property. A subclass ‘inherits’ all the Data Properties and all the Object Properties of its superclass.
Using the sample ontology described above, if the starting point for pruning were ‘Club’ then it would be necessary to include all the super classes of Club, namely Organisation and Party in the pruned ontology. The class Member would not be included as the direction and type of that relationship precludes its automatic inclusion. For the same reason the subclasses of Organisation and Party would not be automatically included and neither would any subclasses of club be included had there been any.
However if Member had been included then the direction and type of the Object Properties ‘Has’ and ‘Holds’ would ensure that Club and Individual and all their superclasses were automatically included.
The Data Property ‘Type’ in any concept raises a red flag as it implies the existence of an unmodelled concept, viz. ‘Type of Club’ in Club, ‘Type of Member’ in Member and so forth. For example the ‘Type of Club’ concept could contain a list of all the valid values such as Sailing, Chess, Gymnastics etcetera. The Type_of_Club concept would have an Object Property called ‘Has Type’ with Range of Club. This concept would be automatically included in the pruned ontology.
All automatic inclusions and exclusions can be modified either across all concepts, or on a concept by concept basis. The user specifies ‘Include’, ‘Exclude’ or ‘Ask’ for each type of Object Property.
The decisions to include a particular concept are made by a specialised Semantic Reasoner using the ontology rules, in particular the Object Properties as input to an inference engine. First order predicate logic is initially used to get explicit inclusions and exclusions. Further inferences as in the example of a ‘Type’ Data Property must be determined using forwards and backwards inference chaining. To obtain the best result Novamente's probabilistic logic network techniques can be applied to each localised problem area.
An example of operation of the pruner module will now be described in more detail. In this example, in order to prune an ontology it is necessary to identify the concepts, data properties, object properties and inferences that are included in the ontology. In one example, this is achieved using the indexer module to index the ontology items, and then using the browser module to display the ontology terms for selection as previously described.
In particular, the user selects the ontology to be pruned in the browser module ‘Landing screen’. In this regard, the ontology can be selected from any source, such as a file, Web address, or the like. Once the ontology has been selected the Class List is generated using the index of the ontology. This list displays the name and description of each class. For larger lists a list search function is provided enabling the user to search by class name or part of a class description. It is also possible to search on a data property. In either case the search would return a list of classes which contain that data property. The user then selects a class as the starting point and tags it S0.
Optionally the user then selects an end point E0. If the user does not select an endpoint then they will need to manually control the pruning operation as described above. The user may also return to the Landing Screen and select another ontology for the end point or could alternatively add a set of bridging concepts and relationships if they are aware that the chosen ontologies are disparate. If the user does not specify bridging concepts then the process will proceed on the basis of the overlapping ontologies process described above, otherwise it will proceed as per the disparate ontologies process.
To control the pruning process, a number of metadata parameters can be set, including:
Location to store the pruned ontology.
Shell depth for examination.
Match quality for accepting sameness.
Whether to pause the process at the completion of each shell to allow manual editing.
Maximum run time.
Verbosity of error and log messages.
An example of the manual pruning process will now be described in more detail.
In this example, the user only specifies a starting point from which to start the pruning process. They can perform manual pruning in one of two manners, which can be used interchangeably at any time.
From the Class List screen, typically displayed by the browser module 1310, they can tag classes to be retained with a ‘K’. At any time they can select a ‘Validate’ option which will automatically tag any related classes and axioms and display the tagged classes in the class list. Additionally they can select a ‘View’ option which will pass the tagged classes to a graphing program to show the selected classes and relationships graphically. The graphing program can be a publically available graphing packages such as OntoGraf or the like.
Alternatively the user can open the starting class in the Class Display screen by clicking on the class in the Class List screen displayed by the browser module 1310. The user can then tag all the data properties which they wish to retain, plus any sub/super classes plus any classes specified in the object properties frame. This process can be performed iteratively by clicking on the link to any related class displayed. At any time the user can return to the Class List screen to Validate or View their progress.
Once the user has finished tagging the classes require for the pruned ontology, they return to the Class List screen and select the “Generate Ontology” option. This results in the pruned ontology being generated in the location specified in the application metadata. The tags can be saved to allow easy re-editing of the pruning process.
An example of pruning overlapping ontologies will now be described in more detail.
In this example, the user only specifies starting and end points from which to run the pruning process. The process proceeds as described in the multiple overlapping ontologies as described above.
Assuming that the application metadata parameters have been set to pause between shells the process will stop as each shell is completed. At this point the user can validate or view the automatically tagged items and may remove any tags that they recognise as irrelevant. Until a path connecting the starting and end points is established the view function will display two partial ontologies. By selecting a “Resume” option the program will start on the determination of the next shell.
At any time after one Path has been identified the process can be stopped. However alternatively, a number of different possible paths between the start and end points can be determined.
Once the specified end of processing conditions have been met the process stops and returns to the user with a status message which would include one of the following:
Specified maximum shell depth reached. No paths found. Ontologies may be disparate (Failure).
Specified maximum shell depth reached ‘n’ paths found ‘m’ paths requested (Partial success).
Specified number of paths found (Complete success).
The user may decide to extend the process by changing the completion criteria in the application metadata and selecting the Resume option. If the user is satisfied with the result they would select the “Generate Ontology” option. This results in the pruned ontology being generated in the location specified in the application metadata. The tags can be saved to allow easy re-editing of the pruning process.
If the user decides that the ontologies are in fact disparate then they would proceed as described below.
In this example, the user specifies starting and end points and a set of related bridging concepts from which to run the pruning process. They may have saved tags from an earlier attempt to prune and merge the ontologies.
By selecting a commence pruning option the process will start as described in as per the disparate ontology process described above. Assuming that the application metadata parameters have been set to pause between shells the process will stop as each shell is completed.
At this point the user can validate or view the automatically tagged items and may remove any tags that they recognise as irrelevant. Until a path connecting the starting and end points to one of the user defined bridging points is established the view function will display many partial ontologies, one for each user defined point and one for the starting and end points.
By selecting a resume option the process starts on the determination of the next shell. At any time after one path in the source ontology, and one path in the target ontology can be connected via the bridging classes the process can be stopped. However alternatively as many paths as possible between the start and end points can be determined.
Once the specified end of processing conditions have been met the process stops and returns to the user with a status message which would include one of the following:
Specified maximum shell depth reached. No paths found. Ontologies may be disparate (Failure).
Specified maximum shell depth reached ‘n’ paths found ‘m’ paths requested (Partial success).
Specified number of paths found (Complete success).
The user may decide to extend the process by changing the completion criteria in the application metadata and selecting the Resume option.
If the user decides that the ontologies are in fact still disparate then they would need to spend some effort in examining their bridging concepts. They may need to perform manual tagging to ensure that the paths meet.
If the user is satisfied with the result they can select a generate ontology option resulting in a pruned ontology being generated in the location specified in the application metadata. The tags can be saved to allow easy re-editing of the pruning process.
The Semantic Matcher Module
The semantic matcher module enables a mathematical value to be applied to the degree to which two concepts are similar when considered within a particular context. The name for this process is ‘semantic matching’ and it is of particular importance when trying to align the concepts in two ontologies. For example the words ‘company’ and ‘organisation’ in a business context do not have exactly the same meaning. All companies are organisations but not all organisations are companies. In fact the class companies are a subset of the class organisation. For example “This organisation is a listed company but that organisation is a golf club”.
In a social context company is not related to organisation but may be related to a set of associates. For example “John Doe keeps bad company”. A club and a company are both organisations so there is some similarity. A listed company and an unlisted company are also similar and share a common parent. Are they as conceptually close as a club and a company? What about a public unlisted company (>50 shareholders) and a private unlisted company (<51 shareholders)? Are they closer than a listed company and an unlisted company?
To give a mathematical basis to measure how similar two concepts may be we introduce the concept of ‘sameness’. There are a number of formulaic metrics. For example, the Levenstein distance (Levenshtein, 1966) counts the insertions and deletions needed to match two strings, the Needleman-Wunsch (Needleman, 1970) distance assigns a different cost on the edit operations, the Smith-Waterman (Smith, 1981) additionally uses an alphabet mapping to costs and the Monge-Elkan (Monge, 1996) uses variable costs depending on the substring gaps between the words. Moreover we used the Jaro-Winkler similarity, which counts the common characters between two strings even if they are misplaced by a “short” distance, the Q-Gram (Sutinen, 1995), which counts the number of tri-grams shared between the two strings and the sub-string distance which searches for the largest common substring. However, none of these have proved to be particularly effective.
Another common technique is to arrange the concepts in a single hierarchical tree with the concept of ‘thing’ as the root. Most Sameness formulae are functions of the number of concepts between those being measured and their common parent, and the distance to the root of the hierarchy.
However given the fact that the distance to the root of the hierarchy can differ significantly, depending upon the ontologist who built the ontology and whether the ontology has been pruned by the person using the ontology, the distance to the root is generally irrelevant.
In general, sameness is measured by the number of edges between concepts. Other possibilities exist based upon the number of data properties. For example, a club and a company may have “5” data properties each, the balance being held in the definition of an organisation, whereas a public listed company and a public unlisted company may only have one attribute each, the balance being held in the company definition. Thus a public unlisted company is more similar to a public listed company then a company is to a club (“2” attributes instead of “10”, or in other words there is less difference and difference is equivalent to distance).
The concept of ‘distance’ is considered important. How far apart are two concepts? There are formulae based upon the number of concepts between those being measured and their common parent. If the distance is “1” then obviously one concept is a superclass of the other. However if the distance is “2” then they are either siblings or grandchildren. This is not a particularly useful fact.
There are some relationships between distance and sameness. Obviously if the distance is “0” then the sameness is “1.0”, in other words, the concepts are identical, so in effect there is only one concept in this instance.
A good semantic matcher module should be able to calculate the sameness and distance of a match using any appropriate formula.
Given that there are many thousands of public and private ontologies describing every aspect of the scientific, engineering and business worlds. In order to align two ontologies it is necessary to determine whether there is a semantic match between the concepts in the two ontologies.
Currently the manipulation of ontologies defining linked concepts is confined to academics and professional ontologists. Definitions and names of concepts vary enormously depending upon context. In order to compare terms in and across ontologies we need to have some mechanism for examining the terms semantically. Are two concepts actually synonyms for the same thing or are they related in some other way. For example, organisations and companies have some attributes in common so there is some degree of sameness. All companies are organisations but not at all organisations are companies (Subsumption).
In another example the existence of fingers implies the existence of hands. Although they are not the same there is a relationship between them and the existence of one implies the existence of the other because one is a part of the other (Meronym).
Given any two concepts we would like to know how similar they are; i.e. Sameness 0→1 where 1.0 implies they are identical, whether one is a subclass or superclass of the other (−1,0,1), and whether one is a part of another (−1,0,1).
The semantic matcher module includes a database of concepts, their meaning and relationships between them. It has tools for loading the concepts from ontologies, for manually editing the relationships between concepts and their definitions and for analysing concepts in a mathematically defined manner. These mathematically defined properties of concepts and their relationships can then be used in a variety of situations, such as aligning ontologies, as a dictionary and as a semantic concept matcher module.
The semantic matcher module concept finds synonyms, subsumptions (class hierarchy) and meronyms (part of) in a particular context (e.g. Medical, Business). It is initially loaded by parsing an ontology and obtaining the classes, their annotations, class structure and any ‘part-of’ Object properties. The class name is then used in something such as WordNet or Watson to determine the meaning and possible synonyms. The meaning is parsed into triples, as are any notations. The matcher module then looks for mathematical correspondences in the triples determine synonymity.
The semantic matcher module is a stand-alone process which either evaluates two lists of concepts, typically from two ontologies or else evaluates a single concept, matching this against reference terms to determine a meaning for the concept.
In the first instance the matcher module will pair each item in the first list with each item in the second list. Each pair i,j is then analysed to determine the following items:
The semantic similarity Sij.
If The terms are synonyms then the similarity is Sij=1.0.
If Antonyms then Sij=−1.
If there is no relationship then Sij=0.
The subsumption relationship Subij.
If Ci is a subclass of Cj then Subij=−1.
If Ci is a superclass of Ci then Subij=1.
else Subij=0.
The meronym relationship Merij.
If Ci is a part off Cj then Merij=−1.
If cj is a part of Ci then Merij=1.
else Merij=0.
In the second instance the matcher module takes a single concept and a context definition and produces a list of synonyms, sub and superclasses and meronyms for that concept in that context. If the context is not supplied the evaluation is performed across all contexts.
Some examples follow based upon the presumption that a medical ontology and a Human Resources Ontology have been defined to SemMatch:
SemMat(Party, Client, Business)=(1.0,0,0)
SemMat(Party, Individual, Business)=(0.25,1,0)
SemMat(Individual, Client, Business)=(0.25,−1,0)
SemMat(Car,Engine,Automotive)=(0.1,0,1)
SemMat(Car,Wheels,Automotive)=(0.1,0,1)
SemMat(Patient,Person,Medical)=(0.25,−1,0)
SemMat(Patient,Person,HR)=(0,0,0)
SemMat(Patient,Person,)=(0.25,−1,0)
SemMat(Person, Medical)=Definition: A single human being
Synonyms: Individual, Body
SuperClass: Entity, Role
SubClass: Patient, Practitioner, Performer
Meronyms: −1, None
+1, Organs, Limbs
SemMat(Person,)=Context: Medical
Definition: A single human being
Synonyms: Individual, Body
SuperClass: Entity, Role
SubClass: Patient, Practitioner, Performer
Meronyms: −1, None
+1, Organs, Limbs
SemMat(Person,)=Context: HR
Definition: A single human being
Synonyms: Individual
SuperClass: Entity, Party, Involved Party
SubClass: Employee
Meronyms: −1, Family
+1, None
The two different usage methods will now be described in more detail with reference to FIGS. 18A and 18B.
The Semantic Matcher module 1350 uses a Concept Matching Database 1604 to perform its evaluations. In the example of FIG. 18A, two lists of concepts 1801, 1802, such as ontology terms A, B and X, Y are received and then compared by the semantic matcher module 1350 to generate sameness scores 1803 for each possible pairing of ontology terms.
In the example of FIG. 18B, a single concept, such as a single ontology term 1804 is received, and the semantic matcher module 1350 compares this to the concept matching database 1604 and returns a list of synonyms 1805.
The concept matching database (CMD) 1604 is constructed using the indexer module 1320. Before it can be used the database must first be loaded, which is typically it would be loaded by parsing an ontology based upon the context of interest. The database can be updated by the user at any time to add new contexts.
The CMD 1604 contains a number of tables as defined in Table 8, with the relationships between the tables being shown in 18C.
TABLE 8
Table	Column	Description
Word	Word	The name of a concept from a particular source.
Word_ID	An automatically generated unique computer key.
Meaning	A paragraph defining the meaning of this version of
the word.
Meaning_RDF	The meaning above transformed to RDF triples.
Source_ID	The Ontology from which the word was sourced.
Ccpt_W_Ctext	Word_ID	An automatically generated unique computer key
Concept ID	An automatically generated computer key which is
updated to ensure that synonyms all have the same
key.
Lemma	Boolean switch showing whether the word is the
main root word for synonyms.
Context_ID	Foreign key identifying context. The context in
which the concepts have these meanings and
synonyms.
Concept	Concept	A concept name. It may be more than one word.
For example ‘Involved Party’.
Concept ID	An automatically generated computer key which is
updated to ensure that synonyms all have the same
key.
Context	Context	Name of a context. Typically the name of an
ontology e.g. SNOMED CT, HL7 RIM.
Context_ID	An automatically generated unique computer key.
ContextSource	Context_ID	Foreign key identifying context.
Source_ID	Foreign key identifying source.
Source	Source_ID	An automatically generated unique computer key.
Address	Typically the URL/URI of the site from which the
ontology use to load the database was obtained.
Relation Type	Relation_Type_ID	An automatically generated unique computer key.
Name	The name of the Object Property used in the
relationship between the two CWCs e.g. ‘subclassof’
or ‘ispartof’.
Description	A description of the Object Property
e.g. subsumption, meronym.
Meronyms	CCW_ID_P	The input concept key
CCW_ID_C	The concept key of the concept of which the input
concept key is a part i.e. Concept_ID is part of
Part_of_ID.
Relation_Type_ID	The concept key of the concept of which the
Includes_ID concept key is a part i.e. Includes_ID is
part of Concept_ID.
Word to Word	Word_ID_P	The parent word key.
Word_ID_C	The child word key-a synonym from a different
source, typically WorldNet.
The load mechanism will now be described in detail with reference to FIG. 18D.
Initially, an overall context of the ontologies 1801 to be loaded is determined and entered into the Context table with an ID of 1. For example, if medical ontologies are loaded, the context would be identified as “medical”.
An example of the ontologies in this category and the context name for each as shown below:
Adverse Event Reporting Ontology AERO
African Traditional Medicine Ontology ATMO
Allen Brain Atlas (ABA) Adult Mouse Brain Ontology ABA-AMB
Alzheimer's disease ontology ADO
Amino Acid Ontology AMINO-ACID
Amphibian Gross Anatomy Ontology AAO
Amphibian Taxonomy Ontology ATO
Anatomic Pathology Lexicon PATHLEX
Anatomical Entity Ontology AEO
Each of these ontologies has a source which will be loaded into the Source table thus allowing the Source 2 Context table to also be loaded.
Next, the following information is extracted and parsed from each of the ontologies:
Classes
Object Properties
Annotations
Labels
As all words are coming from one ontology the Context_ID is known. Each Class becomes a Word in the Word table. The Annotations are loaded as the Meaning in the Word table. Temporary tables are created relating Word_ID 2 Context_ID with lemma (root meaning) and Concept, both set to null, and Class2Object-Property2Class with Word IDs for each class and Concept_ID set to null.
Following this, the extracted classes and their annotations are then loaded into Word table. Each Class becomes a Word. Each Word is assigned with a unique Word_ID and a class annotation becomes the Meaning in the Word table. As all words are coming from one ontology the Context_ID is known as previously described.
Temporary tables are created relating Word_ID2Context_ID with lemma and Concept, both set to null, and Class2Object-Property2Class with Word_IDs for each class and Concept_ID set to null.
For each context, the first step is to match each word to a meaning and synonym obtained from a standard dictionary, such as the WordNet 1802. Any unmatched words are then matched against words from other contexts to identify synonyms. These steps are now described in more detail.
Each word in the Word table is passed to WordNet 1802 to obtain a meaning and potentially the root word or lemma for the group of synonyms or lexeme, based upon that Word. The WordNet meaning is lexically compared with the meaning derived from the annotation.
This is done by converting the meaning to RDF triples and evaluating the triples. This process is described in more detail below.
If the meanings match then the WorldNet Word and Meaning are loaded into the Word table with a new Word_ID. The new Word_ID is assigned to Word_ID_C and the original Word_ID is assigned to Word_ID_P both are then loaded into the Word2Word.
The Word_ID2Context_ID table is loaded with the Word_ID assigned to the WorldNet Lemma as the Word_ID and the same Context_ID as the related Word_ID, which was loaded as the Word_ID_P. The Word_ID2Context_ID table has only two columns lemma and concept. So the lemma is assigned with new Word_ID_C and concept is assigned from Word_ID_P.
Finally the Class2Object-Property2Class is loaded with the Word_ID information from WorldNet 1802.
All words for which a Lemma was defined are then loaded into the Concept table. The Word_ID2Context_ID can now be updated with known Concept_ID and Lemma and used to load the Concept_Word_Context table resulting in the CWC_ID being assigned to each Concept and Word used in the named Context. The CWC_ID can be used to identify the words in the Class2Object-Property2Class and together to populate the CWC2CWC table and the Relation_Type table.
A second pass of the Word table examines the meanings of every word for which there is no related lemma, by syntactically comparing the meaning with the meanings of words in the other contexts. The Word_ID of the first meaning to match is chosen as the lemma. The process then continues as for WorldNet identified lemmas.
A third pass simply identifies each word which is not related to a lemma as being a lemma. At the completion of these three passes every word will have been identified in every possible context in the concept table 1809.
Following this a sameness value is calculated. If the full ontology were known then the calculation of Sameness could be performed by matching the attributes (Data Properties) of the concepts being compared. The attribute list would of necessity include the attributes of the superclasses of the concepts.
In the current example sameness is calculated by analysing the meaning of two words. The meaning in English is converted to rdf triples of the form Subject Predicate Object (spo). This is done using a Natural Processing Language (NLP) to RDF converter. (Arndt & Auer, 2014) (Augenstein, et al., 2013)
For example—a club has meaning “A type of organisation which has members, not shareholders and exists to meet some vocational need of its members” could be converted as shown in table 9 below:
TABLE 9
Subject	Predicate	Object
Club	Is a	Organisation
Club	Has	Members
Members	Have	Need
Needs	Are	Vocational
Club	Meets	Needs
An organisation is a concept which is defined as follows “An organisation is a collection of individuals with an agreed reason for being their collection”, which could be converted as shown in Table 10.
TABLE 10
Subject	Predicate	Object
Organisation	Is a	Collection of individuals
Organisation	Has	Individuals
Individuals	Have	Agreed Reason for Being
a Collection
Inserting the Organisation definition into the Club definition we obtain the definition shown in Table 11.
TABLE 11
Subject	Predicate	Object
Club	Is a	Organisation
organisation	Is a	Collection of Individuals
organisation	Has	Individuals
Club	Has	Members
Members	Have	Needs
Needs	Are	Vocational
Club	Meets	Needs
Individuals	Have	Agreed Reason for Being
a Collection
However we cannot infer that a member is an individual. Analysis of this can be used to determine that:
A Member of a Club is an Individual. This could have been inferred if the Membership concept had the Object Properties more correctly defined as Member isAn Individual instead of Individual Holds Membership.
The agreed reason for being a collection is to meet vocational needs.
Applying the same process to a Qango in the example ontology described above we would obtain from the Meaning that a Qango is “an organisation created by a government to meet a specified government need,” leading to the triples shown in Table 12.
TABLE 12
Subject	Predicate	Object
Qango	Is a	Organisation
Organisation	Is a	Collection of Individuals
Organisation	Has	Individuals
Qango	Created By	Government
Government	Has	Need
Qango	Meets	Need
Individuals	Have	Agreed Reason for Being
a Collection
This can be used to construct a comparison table based upon common predicates and objects as shown in Table 13.
TABLE 13
Predicate Object	Club	Qango
Is A organisation (+2 other	Y	Y
organisational matches)
Created by Government	N	Y
Figure US11625424-20230411-P00001
Figure US11625424-20230411-P00002	Figure US11625424-20230411-P00003
Meets Needs	Y	Y
Specified by Government	N	Y
Specified by Members	Y	N
This allows a formula for sameness to be used based upon the following factors.
Number of triples for concepts of Club and Qango are denoted by N1 and N2 respectively where N1=9 and N2=7.
Number of shared predicates (SP) between the two concepts Club and Qango is 5, i.e. SP=5.
Number of shared predicate object (SPO) pairs between the two concepts Club and Qango is 4, i.e. SPO=4.
For example:
Sameness=SPO/SP=4/5=0.8 OR
Sameness=(SP+SPO)/(N1+N2)=9/16=0.5625
The actual formula used is irrelevant. The important fact is that we can derive a formula which gives a measure of Sameness.
It will be appreciated that throughout this process the user can interact with the semantic matcher module using screens 1808, typically displayed by the browser module.
Aligner Module
The need for ontology alignment arises out of the need to integrate heterogeneous databases, ones developed independently and thus each having their own data vocabulary. In the Semantic Web context involving many actors providing their own ontologies, ontology matching has taken a critical place for helping heterogeneous resources to interoperate. Ontology alignment tools find classes of data that are “semantically equivalent”, for example, “Truck” and “Lorry”. The classes are not necessarily logically identical.
The result of an ontology alignment is a set of statements representing correspondences between the entities of different ontologies. This may be expressed in the purpose built language ‘Expressive and Declarative Ontology Alignment Language’ (EDOAL) (David, et al., 2013) or other languages (ZIMMERMANN, et al., 2006).
The first requirement is to determine if there is a semantic match between the concepts in the ontologies being aligned, which can be determined using the semantic matcher module described above. For example the words ‘company’ and ‘organisation’ in a business context do not have exactly the same meaning. All companies are organisations but not all organisations are companies. In fact the class companies is a subset of the class organisation. For example “This organisation is a listed company but that organisation is a golf club”. In a social context company is not related to organisation but may be related to a set of associates. For example “John Doe keeps bad company”.
A club and a company are both organisations so there is some similarity. A listed company and an unlisted company are also similar and share a common parent viz. company. Are they as conceptually close as a club and a company? What about a public unlisted company (>50 shareholders) and a private unlisted company (<51 shareholders)? Are they closer than a listed company and an unlisted company?
To give a mathematical basis to measure how similar two concepts may be we introduce the concept of ‘sameness’. There are a number of formulaic metrics for sameness. The most common technique is to arrange the concepts in a single hierarchical tree with the concept of ‘thing’ as the root. Most formulae are functions of the number of concepts between those being measured and their common parent, and the distance to the root of the hierarchy.
However given the fact that the distance to the root of the hierarchy is can differ significantly, depending on the ontologist who built the ontology and whether the ontology has been pruned by the person using the ontology, the distance to the root is probably irrelevant.
In general, sameness is measured by the number of edges between concepts. Other possibilities exist based upon the number of data properties. For example, a club and a company may have 5 data properties each, the balance being held in the definition of an organisation, whereas a public listed company and a private listed company may only have one attribute each, the balance being held in the company definition. Thus a private listed company is more similar to a public listed company then a company is to a club (2 attributes instead of 10, or in other words there is less difference and difference is equivalent to distance).
A Putative Ontology (PO) is an ontology created from a structured source, typically a relational database, an xml file or a spread sheet. Such an alignment may have some very complex mappings in which data instances in the putative ontology map to classes in the full ontology. This is a special case of alignment.
A simple example will now be described with reference to FIG. 19A, which shows a “Thing Database”, which is an example of a totally denormalised data structure as it can contain the metadata (and hence structure) as well as the data within four tables.
For example, if the Thing Type table contains a Thing Type of ‘Class’, then every related row in the Thing table would contain the name of a class. The relationship between classes would be defined in the ‘Thing to Thing’ table where the ‘Thing Type to Thing Type’ specifies the type of relationship.
In ontological terms, any Type table can give rise to a set of classes. Consider a table containing details of a set of vehicles. A vehicle type table could have been used to ensure that only valid types of vehicles are included. For example Cars, trucks, tractors but not prams, bicycles, ships. Ontologically, we could then have a separate class for each type of vehicle specified in the Vehicle Type table. This concept can be generalised but is not always appropriate. It could result in every personnel table being split into male and female classes! Consequently the program should identify every situation in which hidden classes contained in the data can be exposed and present them to the user for validation.
In some cases the Type table may contain many types of types. For example Concepts, Data Properties and Properties of Data Properties, such as Vehicles, trucks, Cars, engine type, weight, kilograms. This could be shown as:
Car has engine type diesel
Car has weight 2000
Weight has Unit of Measure kilograms
Car is subclass of Vehicle
An example of the thing database will now be described assuming the database is populated as shown in Tables 14 to 17.
TABLE 14
Table	Thing	
ID	Name	Thing Type ID
1	Fingers	A
2	Hand	A	
3	Person	A	
4	Living Organism	A
5	Organisation	B
6	Individual	B
7	Client	B
TABLE 15
Table	Thing to Thing	
Thing ID_P	Thing_ID_C	Thing Type to Thing Type ID
1	2	Aa
2	3	Aa
3	4	Aa
3	6	Cc
6	7	Bb
5	7	Bb
TABLE 16
Table	Thing Type
ID	Name
A	Organic Structure
B	Business Component
TABLE 17
Table	Thing Type to Thing Type
ID	Thing_Type_ID_P	Thing_Type_ID_C	Name
Aa	A	A	Is Part of
Bb	B	B	Is a
Cc	A	B	Is the same as
A putative Ontology based on the Relational Schema would only show four classes with names related to the table names. However, an ontology based upon the data would show eight classes based upon the names in the ‘Thing’ and ‘Thing Type’ tables, plus all the Object Properties identified in the other two tables, as shown in FIG. 19B. In this example, the “business component” and “organic structure” terms are obtained from the thing type table (Table 16), whereas the remaining terms are obtained from the thing table (Table 14).
This is an example of the problem where the classes in one ontology match to data instances in another ontology. For clarity this is identified as a ‘Putative Mapping Problem’ (PMP). It can manifest during alignment when the putative ontology has data properties with names matching ‘Primary Key’ or ‘Foreign Key’, or a class with multiple instances of the same foreign key, as in ‘Parent’ and ‘Child’ (BOM) or a class with an associated type class. These examples potentially disguise a Class hierarchy hidden in Data Instances!
A common alignment technique is to arrange the concepts from each ontology into two hierarchical trees, each with the concept of ‘thing’ as the root. The mathematical concept of ‘Distance’ is then introduced to give some mathematical mechanism for determining alignment. Most Distance formulae are functions of the number of concepts between those being measured and their common parent, and the distance to the root of the hierarchy.
However given the fact that the distance to the root of the hierarchy can differ significantly, depending upon the ontologist who built the ontology, whether the ontology has been pruned by the person using the ontology, and whether there is a lop′ ontology acting as a conceptual umbrella, the distance to the root is probably irrelevant.
The ontology aligner module looks for common concepts in multiple ontologies and maps the concepts from one ontology to the other thus allowing the two ontologies to be treated as one ontology. Using the alignment it is also possible to merge the two ontologies although this is a risky process and is not generally recommended due to the potential for semantic mis-match propagation.
In general no ontology is perfect. For example there are many modelling errors in the sample ontologies used here. It is obvious that ‘Shares’ should be ‘Owned’ by ‘Clients’ rather than ‘Individuals’ and that ‘Work History’ should be ‘Employed’ by ‘Client’ rather than ‘Company’. Both these instances show that the relationship is moving from a more restrictive relationship to a less restrictive relationship. Although that would be possible in these cases it would probably be invalid to move membership of a club from an ‘Individual’ to a ‘Client’.
The class ‘Membership’ is also badly named as the relationship between Membership and Individual is ‘Holds’. If the Class had been named ‘Member’ then the relationship would have been ‘is A’. This would have allowed the Member to inherit the Properties of an Individual. Unless the Object Property ‘Has’ is fully defined then it use in inferencing is restricted.
These errors were introduced to the samples to illustrate some of the complexities of alignment.
Operation of the aligner module will now be described in more detail with reference to FIG. 19C.
In this regard, in use, ontologies 1901, 1902 defined in OWL and RDFS files are opened using the aligner module 1340, with the user then interacting with the ontology using a set of screens as defined below, ultimately resulting in ontologies 1903, 1904 connected by a series of alignments 1905 and potentially a merged aligned ontology 1906.
The process consists of a number of sub processes, including:
Initialisation.
Low level Class matching—identifies minimal mappings.
Putative Mapping Problem Identification.
Object Property Analysis.
Data Property Analysis.
Multi Class mappings.
PMP resolution.
Sibling Analysis.
Minimal mapping resolution.
Because an alignment can be identified in many steps there is the potential to recalculate the alignment for a particular pair of concepts. This problem is overcome by maintaining an Alignment Map. This map is updated every time an alignment is identified and is consulted by the program before a new alignment pair is considered for evaluation to prevent duplication of effort. The Alignment Map can be displayed to the user enabling them to follow the alignment process, query and override any potential alignment and instruct the program to re-perform any process.
These steps will now be described in more detail. Each step i can be assigned a weighting factor Wi, with the results being combined to provide an overall alignment score. These weighting factors are applied at certain steps. A possible Weight Accumulation formula is given, but there are many possible weighting schemes that could be used. This is an area where machine learning or statistical analysis and inferencing can be used to determine suitable weighting formulas.
During the initialisation process, an index 1603 is obtained from the Indexer module. Following this the ontologies 1901, 1902 are loaded into the semantic matcher module 1340. When the alignment table has not been pre-loaded then W0=0.0.
In the following examples Wi=i for illustration of the technique. Otherwise the weights Wi are assigned by the user or a heuristic mechanism determined by machine learning or experience. In general for any step i the accumulatively determine Match Value MVi A is determined by:
MV i A =MV i-1 A /W i+(W i−1)*MV i /W i
where MVi is the raw Match Value calculated in step i
Another, more traditional weighting scheme would be
MV=ΣMV i *W i /ΣW i
where MV is the weighted match value and MV, is the match value at step i
This process could be performed at each step or only at the end of the procedure, depending on the preferred implementation.
Next, class matching is performed on the basis of the semantic meaning of terms in the ontologies. This process examines each potential alignment pair using the semantic matcher module to find a potential match based on the class name. If it finds an alignment it then traverses the inheritance chains (Object Property=‘SubClassof’) from that alignment, checking the class names for another alignment using the semantic matcher module.
This may only require a small number of matches although it is possible to find all matching classes. A complete 1-1 match is possible if the ontologies being matched are using the same basic ontology. For example:
Adverse Event Reporting Ontology AERO
African Traditional Medicine Ontology ATMO
Both are based on the standard Galen ontology so one would expect a 1-1 match.
MV for each pair is based upon the score provided by the semantic matcher module and Set W1=1.0 for purposes of this example.
Starting at the root of the first Ontology, examine each class starting at the root class of the second ontology. A match occurs when the sameness found using the semantic matcher module for the concept pair exceeds the threshold Match Value for alignment (MVAT). If an acceptable match is found it is called a potential alignment and the details are recorded in the alignment map.
The alignment map records the two concepts, assigns an alignment Id, a minimal map Id, any tags associated with the alignment, any PMP Id assigned, any enrichment Id and the last processing step Id. A separate table, related on the Alignment Id stores the Match Value for each step. These values can be manually overridden if desired.
The alignment map may be pre-loaded with any known alignments. These are tagged with a user tag ‘User Initiated’ and the Match value must be set, generally to 1.00 although lower values are possible. The combination of ‘User Initiated’ and MV=1.00 will prevent further processing of this alignment.
The process continues to the next class related to the current class in the first Ontology by an Object Property. Superclasses of the current class are processed first. The program processes Inheritance Object Properties before other Object Properties. Superclasses of the current class are processed before any subclasses are examined. The process stops as soon as an alignment with MV<MVAT.is found.
Each time a potential alignment is identified it is assigned to a minimal mapping set and given a minimal map Id mm_ID. If a hierarchically related class is identified it is added to the same mm_ID. At the end of this step we will defined have a number of minimal maps which potentially meet the criteria of minimal mapping. This cumulative match value is refined at each succeeding step.
The recognition of a potential PMP is always performed. PMP resolution is only performed if requested in a configuration file. If not requested the recognition of the potential PMP is recorded in the activity log created as the alignment is performed as an Information Message and is added to the cumulative statistics report.
In some instances it may not be desirable to resolve the PMP as both ontologies may be putative ontologies and it may be desirable to retain the BOM structure.
If PMP resolution was requested then PMP tagging is performed. The Data Property names are examined for the existence of key words such as:
Object Property names contain:
Type
Relation
Class
Concept
. . .
Data Property names contain:
Identifier
ID
Key
Parent
Child
Primary Key
Foreign Key
. . .
The existence of data properties containing these key words does not necessarily imply a PMP. Further algorithms need to be applied to be certain. Any structure which maps to a standard.
‘Type’ table in ERA diagrams must be identified. The user must select each row in the type table which is to be.
‘Bill of Materials’ structure must be identified and potentially expanded into the appropriate class structure.
At this stage the classes involved in each PMP are tagged as ‘PMP’ and given a PMP-set-identifier PMP01, PMP02, . . . for each set of equivalent BOM tables. They are resolved later on, as will be described in more detail below. As each PMP class is identified the details may be presented to the user who may decide that that instance is not a PMP.
No MV is calculated for this step so MV2 A=MV1 A=0.5.
Following this, object properties and their related classes associated with the each alignment pair from the previous steps are analysed. This step is sometimes called ‘Structural Analysis’. This will identify:
If the names of all the related classes and the Object Properties match then tag the pair as an “Anchor Point”. MV=1.0. Add the related classes to the minimal map if they are not already there and repeat step 2 Data Property Analysis for the related classes in that Minimal Map
If the name and related super class match but not any of the subclasses then tag the pair as “Possible Siblings”. MV=0.3. Add the Super class to the Minimal Map. Go to multi class mappings below.
If the name and related super class match but only some of the subclasses match then tag the pair as “Related subset”.
MV is calculated as follows:
Assign weights of 2.0 to each matching subclass and 1.0 to each other matching related class.
Sum these weights as the Number matching NM.
Assign weights of 1.0 to each subclass and 0.5 to each other related class.
Sum these weights across both superclasses as the Total Number NA
The Match Value MV3=NM/NA
If no related classes match then the MV3=0.001
Add the Super class to the Minimal Map. Go to multi class mappings below.
For each pair calculate the cumulative weighted Match Value as below:
MV 3 A =MV 2 A /W 3+(W 3−1)*MV 3 /W 3
Assume W3=3
MV2 A=0.5 from previous example
MV3=1.0 from Object Property match
Then MV3 A=0.5/3+2/3*1.0=0.83333
Following this, data property analysis is performed to analyse whether the data properties (attributes) of matching classes are similar. The analysis, for each pair of classes:
Compare the Data Properties for each class using SemMat where there is no exact name match.
Assign a “Match value” (MV) based on the Data Properties.
Tag the alignment pair with a match type. Select the next pair in the minimal map and repeat the processes above. If there are no more alignments within the minimal map, move to the next minimal map.
In more detail, if A={a1, a2, a3, . . . ai} is a set of Data Properties of the first concept and B={b1, b2, b3, . . . bj} is a set of Data Properties of the second concept then the following possibilities exist:
All Data Properties in the classes match. Tag as “Exact Match” i.e. ∀a∈A≡∀b∈B
Match Value=1.000
A subset of Data Properties from one ontology match all the Data Properties in the other ontology. Tag as “Subset”
i.e. A⊂B or ∀a∈A≡A∃b∈B
MVi=(N(A∩B)/N(B))0.5 where N(A) is the number of Data properties in A, assuming N(A)<N(B)
A subset of Data Properties from one ontology match a subset of Data Properties in the other ontology. Tag as “PartMatch”
i.e. ∃a∈A≡∃b∈B
MVi=N(A∩B)/N(B) where N(A) is the number of Data properties in A, assuming
N(A)<N(B)
No Data Properties match. MV=0.1, Tag as “NameOnly”
i.e. ∀a∈A≡∀b∈B
If MV is less than a predetermined threshold, (default value=0.1) then discard that match pair from the Minimal Map and proceed with the next match pair. This process is repeated until all minimal maps have been analysed, at which point a matching value is calculated:
MV 4 A =MV 3 A /W 4+(W 4−1)*MV i /W 4
Assume W4=4
MV3 A=0.833333
MV4=1.0 from Data Property match
Then MV4 A=0.8333/4+3/4*1.0=0.9583
Multi class mappings occur when the class in on ontology has been split into a number of subclasses in another ontology. In such cases we would expect the pair to be have already been tagged as either “Possible Siblings” or “Multi Class Mappings” and “Subset”.
The multiclass mapping is usually detected by analysing the number of Data Properties for the potentially related classes in the class and sub classes in each ontology. If the ontology class which does not have a subclass has the number of Data Properties approximately equal to the class in the other Ontology plus the Data Properties of the sub-class with the most Data Properties then it is probable that the sub classes of the class in the second ontology have been denormalised into the class in the first ontology.
There are the following possible scenarios:
The Data Properties in single class in one ontology maps to the Data Properties in a class and subclass or subclasses in the other ontology.
The Data Properties in a class and subclasses match to the Data Properties in a class and some subclasses in the other ontology.
In the first case the Data Property count is performed by considering matching the Data Properties of the first ontology class with the Data Properties of each pair composed of Class+Subclass in the second ontology.
For example, Company in Ontology 1 has no children, and 2 children in Ontology 2. If analysing the Data Properties of company (1) with Company+Listed Company (2) shows that the number of Data Properties match but not all the meanings.
Analysing the Data Properties of company (A) with Company+Unlisted Company (B) shows that both the number and meaning of Data Properties match. This can be tagged as ‘Different Normalisation’ and assigned a matching value MV=1.0.
Because the Listed Company and Unlisted Company are siblings it is possible to infer that the Listed Company is an enrichment in ontology 2 so it can be tagged as ‘Enrichment’ and the matching value calculated by dividing twice the number of matching Data Properties by the total number of Data Properties.
MV i=2*N(A∩B)/(N(A)+N(B))
where N( ) is the function to produce the number of Data properties in concepts A, B and A∩B
This method can be generalised to the situation where the two classes have a different number of children. This situation can be tagged as ‘Enrichment Possible’ and each class involved is given a single enrichment ID.
Another case of multiclass mappings is when classes have been normalised differently. For example, a Vehicle class could be subclassed as (SUV, Sedan, Coupe, Convertible) or it could be subclassed by manufacturer (Citroen, Peugeot, Fiat, Rover). Thus two vehicle ontologies could parse the data properties differently. However, the attributes of vehicles would be identical in the two ontologies.
In the general case, if a set of Data Properties are assigned to a set of sub Classes from two ontologies, and the sub Classes are different in each ontology but the set of Data properties defining these classes are either identical or very similar, then there is a many to many mapping between the subclasses defined. This is also tagged as ‘Enrichment Possible’ and each class involved is given a single enrichment ID.
No MV is calculated for this step so MV5 A=MV4 A=0.9583.
PMP resolution involves identifying additional classes in putative ontologies by identifying denormalised classes stored in tables, and results in a major enrichment of the ontology from which it was derived.
Each PMP-set-identifier is analysed to determine its mapping to a Type structure or a BOM structure as described above. These generally map to some arrangement of the ERA diagram shown in FIG. 19A, as is determined by mapping only the Object properties with the matching structural relationships in that diagram. An example of extracted classes from Data Property instances is shown in Tables 14 to 17.
Once the mapping is determined it is a relatively simple matter to generate the denormalised ontology captured in the BOM structure. This generated ontology component can then be aligned by returning to the step of low level class matching based on the semantic meaning of the classes as previous described. In this step the Classes generated from the BOM analysis will be added to the appropriate minimal maps.
No MV is calculated for this step as it results in the return to the step of low level class matching and the recalculation of the MV values for the newly identified classes.
Following this enrichment analysis is performed, with each enrichment_ID identified in the multi class mappings process being analysed to determine whether the subclass sets from the two ontologies match or contain siblings. For example ontology 1 class organisation may have sub classes Club and Company. Ontology 2 contains Qango, Club and Company. Qango is a sibling in Ontology 2 but does not appear in ontology 1. Rather than say the Qango does not align with anything it would be better to identify it as an enrichment to Ontology 1.
Before the enrichment can be applied it would necessary to determine whether the Qango has been denormalised into one of the other subclasses by analysing the Data Properties of Club and Company.
Assuming that the class meets the criteria to be added as a sibling it should be possible to ensure that the minimal maps containing the class and subclass are identical at this stage.
No new MV is calculated for this step. Each sibling retains its current MV. This MV could be raised by a small factor by assigning a current MV of 1.0 to components identified as siblings.
Once all classes are resolved and enrichment completed, any major restructuring should have already occurred and accordingly, minimal maps can be resolved. Further restructuring occurred if enrichments were added in the previous section. Both these facts would result in improve minimal mappings.
Alignments with MV7<MVAT the threshold would be rejected. MVAT is the Match Value threshold for alignment.
The next step is to apply redundancy recognition patterns, so that, within each Minimal Map, redundancy, disjointedness and subsumption is determined. This will have largely been performed already by the preceding steps.
Once the Minimal Map has been fully processed it is recorded along with its classes as a set of RDF triples.
Finally the Minimal Maps must be assembled into a single map by querying the RDF triple generated above. This will be a map of all the classes for which an alignment with acceptable threshold value was found. There may be unaligned items.
Using the cumulative matching formula the final match value MV8=0.9375.
Using the linear matching formula MV=(1*.5+2*1+3*1)/(1+2+3)=5.5/6=0.9167.
An example alignment index is shown in Table 18, which shows an alignment map for the example ontologies described above. The results have been sequenced by alignment pair and step number to highlight the effects of the various algorithms. In reality they would be performed in the #sequence (Column 1).
TABLE 18
#	Ontology 1	Ontology 2	Align Id	Mini Map	Tags	Step	MV	Cum MV
4	Club	Club	4	1	Exact Match	1	SemMat	1.0000	1.0000
11	Club	Club	4	1	Anchor Point	2	Obj	1.0000	1.0000
Prop
18	Club	Club	4	1	Exact Match	3	Data	1.0000	1.0000
Prop
27	Club	Qango	11	1	Possible	1	SemMat	0.5000	0.5000
Match
28	Club	Qango	11	1	Related	2	Obj	0.8000	0.6500
Subset		Prop
29	Club	Qango	11	1	Subset	3	Data	0.5000	0.5500
Prop
30	Club	Qango	11	1	Sibling	4	Multi	0.5000	0.5125
Class
5	Company	Company	5	1	Exact Match	1	SemMat	1.0000	1.0000
12	Company	Company	5	1	Subclass	2	Obj	0.0001	0.5000
Mismatch		Prop
19	Company	Company	5	1	Subset	3	Data	0.7072	0.6381
Prop
25	Company	Company +	9	1	Different	4	Multi	0.5000	0.5000
Listed			Normalisation		Class
Company
26	Company	Company +	10	1	Different	4	Multi	1.0000	1.0000
Unlisted			Normalisation		Class
Company
22	employment	Work	8	2	Possible	1	SemMat	0.0010	0.0010
History			Match
23	employment	Work	8	2	Related	2	Obj	0.8000	0.4510
History			Subset		Prop
24	employment	Work	8	2	Subset	3	Data	0.8660	0.7273
History					Prop
2	Individual	Person	2	1	Exact Match	1	SemMat	1.0000	1.0000
9	Individual	Person	2	1	Related	2	Obj	0.8000	0.9000
Subset		Prop
16	Individual	Person	2	1	Exact Match	3	Data	1.0000	0.9666
Prop
6	Member	Membership	6	1	Near Match	1	SemMat	0.7000	1.0000
13	Member	Membership	6	1	Anchor Point	2	Obj	1.0000	0.8500
Prop
20	Member	Membership	6	1	Exact Match	3	Data	1.0000	0.9500
Prop
3	Organisation	Organisation	3	1	Exact Match	1	SemMat	1.0000	1.0000
10	Organisation	Organisation	3	1	Related	2	Obj	0.3333	0.6667
Subset		Prop
17	Organisation	Organisation	3	1	Exact Match	3	Data	1.0000	0.8888
Prop
1	Party	Client	1	1	Exact Match	1	SemMat	1.0000	1.0000
8	Party	Client	1	1	Related	2	Obj	0.8889	0.9259
Subset		Prop
15	Party	Client	1	1	Exact Match	3	Data	1.0000	0.9815
Prop
7	Shares	Shares	7	1	Exact Match	1	SemMat	1.0000	1.0000
14	Shares	Shares	7	1	Related	2	Obj	0.8571	0.9285
Subset		Prop
21	Shares	Shares	7	1	Exact Match	3	Data	1.0000	0.9762
Prop
A merge process can then be performed to produce a merged ontology 1906, although this is optional and will depend on the preferred implementation. If the user decides to merge the ontologies then a number of decisions need to be made, including:
Determine whether the merged ontology should be Ontology 1 into Ontology 2, or vice versa, or whether the merged ontology should be given a new URI. These cases are shown diagrammatically in FIGS. 19D and 19E.
Select MVMT as the Match Value threshold for merging. Generally the MVMT would be lower than the MVAT as we may include related classes which do not actually align.
If classes are not to be merged then a decision is required as to whether both, neither or only one of the classes should be included in the merged ontology. This can be specified as a rule, or as ‘Ask’, in which case the merge process would pause to allow the user to decide the action.
Should classes for which no alignment was found be added to the merged ontology? For example, if Ontology 1 consists of classes A,B and Ontology 2 of classes B,C where B is the set of classes which are aligned, then should the merged ontology be A,B,C, or A,B or B,C or just B?
Once the merge parameters have been determined then it is a simple matter to merge the Classes, Data Properties and Object Properties of the two ontologies.
Any Data Property instances would retain their original URI unless specified otherwise. Thus if an aligned class has instance data in each ontology then the single merged class would contain the instances from both ontologies.
In general user interaction with the aligner module will be for the purpose of controlling the alignment process.
The first step is to load the configuration file specifying parameters to be used in the alignment and merge. There are a number of metadata parameters which can be set. These include:
URI of the ontologies to be aligned.
Location to store the alignment map.
Location to store the merged ontology.
The Match Value threshold for aligning MVAT
The Match Value threshold for merging MVMT.
Match quality for accepting sameness during low level class matching.
Optionally preload the Alignment Table with known alignments.
Weights to be applied at each analysis step. These could be determined by a machine learning algorithm.
Whether to pause the process during merge to allow user input on merging.
Maximum run time.
Verbosity of error and log messages.
Etcetera.
The user then runs or schedules the process. If a pause for user input was specified the user provides input as requested, and as provided via screens typically displayed by the browser module.
Upon completion of the process the user examines:
A report produced giving statistics of:
number of input classes in each ontology;
number of classes aligned;
number of PMPs identified;
number of PMPs expanded;
number of classes expanded from PMPs;
number of Data Property instances expanded from PMPs;
maximum and minimum Match values;
number of Classes merged;
number of classes in Merged Ontology;
number of data instances in merged ontology;
etcetera.
The runtime logs to evaluate error, warning and information messages.
Based upon this information the user decides to accept the alignment or merge or to vary some of the configuration parameters and reschedule the process.
Accordingly, the above described processes allow for users to interact with ontologies to perform a variety of tasks including browsing, pruning and aligning ontologies. These processes can use a variety of modules and allow operations to be performed such as determining mappings between ontologies, including putative and formalised ontologies, which can in turn be used in mapping source and target data structures for the purpose of facilitating transfer of content between source and target data stores.
Throughout this specification and claims which follow, unless the context requires otherwise, the word “comprise”, and variations such as “comprises” or “comprising”, will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or group of integers.
Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that numerous variations and modifications will become apparent. All such variations and modifications which become apparent to persons skilled in the art, should be considered to fall within the spirit and scope that the invention broadly appearing before described.
Claims (33)
Hide Dependent 
The invention claimed is:
1. Apparatus for aligning ontology terms by determination of a meaning of ontology terms in a plurality of ontologies and aligning relationships and properties between ontology terms in two or more different ontologies, the apparatus including an electronic processing device that:
converts each term in an ontology to a set of knowledge triples consisting of a subject, a predicate and an object, in the Resource Description Framework (RDF) format for comparison of the terms from the two or more different ontologies;
determines a context associated with the ontology terms based on a mathematical analysis of the RDF triples;
determines the nature of any relationship between the two terms from the two or more different ontologies from the determined context of each ontology term;
compares the triples created from each ontology term to the triples created for a number of ontology meanings;
generates a matching score for the results of each comparison, the matching score being based on an algorithmic similarity of the relationships between the triple generated for each ontology term and the triples generated for each potential ontology term and a similarity of the properties of the ontology terms and the potential ontology terms; and
determines if a semantically related term may have the best match;
selects a potential ontology term as the matching ontology term using the matching scores;
determines an alignment between a pair of ontology terms at least partially in accordance with matching scores; and
records an indication of any alignments.
2. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the matching score is determined, at least partially, through consideration of the RDF Triples which define the meaning of the ontology terms and the structural relationships between terms of the different ontologies.
3. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the electronic processing device determines an alignment between classes of different ontologies based on at least one of, the meanings defined by the RDF Triples created to describe the meaning of the ontology terms from the different ontologies.
4. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the electronic processing device, generates the matching score based on whether an ontology term name and potentially matching ontology term meaning are related as at least one of:
a synonym;
an antonym;
a meronym;
a superclass;
a subclass;
a holonym;
a hyponym;
a hypernym;
a troponym; and
other semantic classifications.
5. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the electronic processing device uses the potential ontology term meaning to determine related meanings for the ontology term, the related meanings including at least one of:
a root meaning;
synonyms;
antonyms;
subclasses;
superclasses;
meronyms;
holonyms;
hyponyms;
hypernyms;
troponyms; and
other semantic classifications.
6. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the electronic processing device stores an indication of the ontology term meaning in an index, the indication including at least one of:
an identifier indicative of a defined meaning; and
an indication of related meanings.
7. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the electronic processing device:
determines an ontology term name; and
determines the matching score using that name and the ontology term name from the other ontology.
8. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the electronic processing device:
determines annotations associated with the ontology term; and
determines the matching score using the annotations.
9. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the electronic processing device:
obtains potentially matching ontology term meanings using at least one of:
the context; and
at least one related context.
10. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the electronic processing device:
determines a name and annotation associated with an ontology term;
derives a first meaning from the annotation;
obtains a second meaning from potentially matching ontology term meanings using the name; and
determines the ontology term meaning using the first and second meanings.
11. Apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the electronic processing device:
compares the first and second meanings; and
determines a matching score based on the result of the comparison.
12. Apparatus according to claim 11, wherein the electronic processing device:
converts the first and second meanings into respective sets of RDF triples;
compares the sets of RDF triples; and
determines a matching score based on at least one of:
a number of shared triples;
a number of shared predicates; and
a number of shared predicate object pairs.
13. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the potential ontology term meanings are derived from a reference ontology and stored in a concept matching database.
14. Apparatus according to claim 13, wherein the reference ontology determines the context of the potential ontology term meanings.
15. Apparatus according to claim 13, wherein the electronic processing device determines the potential ontology term meanings by, for each ontology term in the reference ontology:
determining a name and annotation;
deriving a first meaning from the annotation;
obtaining a second meaning from a reference database using the name; and
determining a potential ontology term meaning using the first and second meanings.
16. Apparatus according to claim 15, wherein the electronic processing device:
determines a context associated with the ontology; and
obtains the second meaning using the context.
17. Apparatus according to claim 15, wherein the electronic processing device:
compares the first and second meanings; and
determines a matching score based on the result of the comparison.
18. Apparatus according to claim 17, wherein the electronic processing device:
converts the first and second meanings into respective sets of RDF triples;
compares the sets of RDF triples; and
determines a matching score based on at least one of:
a number of shared triples;
a number of shared predicates; and
a number of shared predicate object pairs.
19. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the electronic processing device, determines an alignment between ontology classes using:
meanings of the classes;
relationships between classes; and
data properties of the classes;
where the relationship type is one of:
a synonym;
an antonym;
a meronym;
a superclass;
a subclass;
a holonym;
a hyponym;
a hypernym;
a troponym; or
other semantic classifications.
20. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein each ontology includes classes having data properties and object properties indicative of relationships between the classes, wherein the electronic processing device determines alignment between classes in the different ontologies at least in part using a class meaning, the data properties and object properties.
21. Apparatus according to claim 20, wherein the electronic processing device, for each pair of classes:
determines a matching score using a class meaning;
compares the matching score to a threshold; and
identifies a potential alignment if the matching score exceeds the threshold.
22. Apparatus according to claim 21, wherein the electronic processing device:
determines a matching score between a root classes of the first ontology with each class of the second ontology starting with the root class of the second ontology and progressing to child classes; and
determines a matching score between each child classes of the first ontology with each class of the second ontology starting with the root class of the second ontology and progressing to child classes.
23. Apparatus according to claim 21, wherein the electronic processing device, for each potential alignment:
compares at least one of the object properties and the data properties of the respective pair of classes; and
updates the matching score in accordance with the results of at least one comparison.
24. Apparatus according to claim 23, wherein the electronic processing device, for each potential alignment:
compares an updated matching score to a threshold; and
excludes the potential alignment if the updated matching score is below the threshold.
25. Apparatus according to claim 23, wherein the electronic processing device determines if a potential alignment is a multi class alignment based on:
relative numbers of data properties of the classes; and
an alignment category.
26. Apparatus according to claim 25, wherein the electronic processing device determines an alignment category depending on whether:
all related classes are potential alignments;
all super classes but not sub classes are potential alignments; and
all super classes but only some sub classes are potential alignments.
27. Apparatus according to claim 25, wherein the electronic processing device resolves multi class alignments at least one of:
based on comparison of data properties; and
in accordance with user input commands.
28. Apparatus according to claim 21, wherein if one of the ontologies is a putative ontology, the electronic processing device:
determines if the putative ontology includes data properties corresponding to classes; and
in response to a positive comparison:
credits additional classes based on the underlying data properties; and
identifies new potential alignments using the added classes.
29. Apparatus according to claim 21, wherein the electronic processing device:
assigns potential alignments to at least one minimal map based on an ontology structure; and
combines minimal maps to form an alignment map.
30. Apparatus according to claim 29, wherein the electronic processing device assigns related classes to a common minimal map so that each minimal map contains ontology classes related by parent/child relationships.
31. Apparatus according to claim 29, wherein the electronic processing device assigns classes to a new minimal map in accordance with at least one of:
user input commands;
a processing time to determine an alignment;
an alignment complexity;
an alignment path distance; and
an alignment type of a current alignment.
32. Apparatus according to claim 29, wherein the electronic processing device combines minimal maps by identifying overlaps between the minimal maps.
33. Apparatus according to claim 32, wherein the electronic processing device:
stores each minimal map as a series of RDF triples; and
queries the RDF triples to identify overlaps.

US20060020465A1

Description
[0001]
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60/591,229 filed Jul. 26, 2004 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 60/624,715 filed Nov. 3, 2004.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002]
1. Field of the Invention
[0003]
The invention relates generally to data capture and standardized knowledge representation. More specifically, the invention relates to an ontology-based system capable of transforming non-standard input data into a standardized output.
[0004]
2. Description of the Related Art
[0005]
There continues to be an explosion of information in nearly every area of human endeavor. Two major problems confronting information system designers are (1) how to efficiently capture and store this wealth of information in digital media, and, (2) how to organize and/or communicate the information in such a way that it is useful and meaningful to human users and other digital systems and devices.
[0006]
A great deal of research has focused on developing effective automated methods for capturing and encoding data from a wide range of sources such as paper documents, photographs, digital images, audio data, and so forth. Some of the technologies resulting from this research include voice recognition systems, optical character recognition systems, and image processing systems, to name but a few. Many of these technologies have reached the point where they can reliably recognize and extract data primitives such as words, sentences, shapes, or even human faces from raw, unstructured input data.
[0007]
Still other research has focused on taking data which has already been captured and encoded, and representing the data in such a way that it is easily interpreted by various agents, such as computer users, search engines, routers, spread sheet applications, statistical engines, etc. Conventional approaches to solving this problem include, for example, indexing schemes which identify or highlight important features in stored data. For example, an image containing a green triangle may be digitally tagged with an identifier of “green triangle” so that a search engine seeking to locate images containing a green triangle can do so by simply examining image tags. Likewise, textual data can be tagged with identifiers, which may include, for example, key words selected from text data.
[0008]
More advanced conventional approaches to this problem, however, focus on providing a formal representation of the input data's semantic content, i.e. some indication of the input data's meaning. Providing a formal representation of the input data's semantic content is beneficial to agents receiving and processing the data because it allows them to reason, (e.g., calculate, make determinations, or construct higher order data structures) in relation to the input data using conceptual or higher order terms. Hence, an accurate and appropriate formal representation of the input data enables agents to make well informed high-level decisions.
[0009]
A formal representation of input data's semantic content is provided, for example, by an ontology. In this context, an ontology is a structured representation of agreements about a set of concepts that characterize the data. The content, structure, and implementation of an ontology can vary widely. However, an ontology generally comprises a plurality of related concepts linked together in a hierarchical manner (e.g., using “IS_A” relationships) to form a taxonomy, and thereafter enriched with additional higher-order relationships between taxonomy concepts to enable the expression of specific knowledge. The concept “higher-order relationships” should be broadly construed to cover all relationships, constraints, and rules having greater complexity than a simple single relationship, such as “IS_A”.
[0010]
An ontology is defined in relation to a particular domain. For example, the University of Washington School of Medicine has defined a Foundational Model of Anatomy in the domain of life science which provides a framework for describing various properties, behaviors, and relationships of components and concepts relative to the human body. (See, http://sig.biostr.washington.edu/projects/fm/AboutFM.html). An ontology is defined with respect to a particular domain for various reasons. One reason is so the ontology can represent a very specific set of interrelated concepts. Another reason is so concepts which are denoted by similar terms in different domains can be represented unambiguously.
[0011]
An ontology is a particularly desirable way of representing knowledge in computer system applications because it allows for transparent communication between different hardware platforms and software applications. In other words, since an ontology provides an explicit formal representation of the semantic content of data, rather than relying on ad hoc techniques such as tagging, indexing, or hashing, the data represented using an ontology may be readily transferred between different systems.
[0012]
Due to the high level of interest in developing electronic health records (EHR) in recent years, a significant amount of research relative to data capture and knowledge representation has focused on how to create EHRs by automatically capturing and representing information provided by healthcare providers relative to patient visits or encounters. The generation of EHRs using an automated system would be a great benefit to the healthcare providers because it would significantly reduce the time that physicians and other healthcare providers spend filling out paperwork. It would also facilitate convenient downstream processing such as automated patient billing procedures.
[0013]
A number of approaches for assimilating and/or representing information related to the health profession have been suggested. U.S. Pat. No. 6,304,848 describes a system that receives voice input data, extracts key-terms from the voice input data using a voice recognition system and a template based key-term identifier, and searches for matching key-terms in a database representing pre-defined medical conditions, diagnoses, and treatments. The database has a hierarchically structured tree configuration wherein primary medical terms are linked to secondary medical terms and so forth.
[0014]
U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2003/0105638 describes a system that receives structured input data and non-structured input data and processes the non-structured input data in light of the structured input data in order to produce structured output data. The structured input data takes the form of answers to a patient questionnaire or some other set of categorical facts. It is primarily used to determine the domain of the non-structured input data. The non-structured input data is voice input data which the system captures using a voice recognition system. The system uses statistically derived criteria based on a body of literature pertaining to a particular knowledge domain to determine semantic relationships for words in the same sentence. Once semantic relationships for words in the same sentence are determined, each sentence is then labeled with a logical identifier.
[0015]
In the article “A voice-enabled, structured medical reporting system”, Rosenthal et al., Journal of American Medical Information Association, 4:436-41 (1997), a system is suggested which accepts unstructured voice-input data and thereafter forms a structured, searchable report by appending SGML (Standard Generalized Markup Language) tags to key words and phrases extracted from the input data.
[0016]
Similarly, in “Automatic concept extraction from spoken medical reports,” Happe et al., International Journal of Medical Informatics, 70, 255-63 (2003) voice input data is captured and then subjected to indexing using a taxonomical hierarchy to produce output data susceptible to subsequent searching.
[0017]
In the above approaches, as well as many other conventional systems integrating data capture and knowledge representation, the various components forming the system are highly interdependent. That is, the system's overall ability to accurately capture data influences the system's ability to represent the semantic content of the data. For example, where a voice recognition system hears the wrong word, the system is unlikely to deduce a correct meaning or properly analyze the semantic content of the voice input data. Likewise, the system's ability to accurately represent the semantic content of the data influences the system's ability to accurately capture the data. For example, where a voice recognition system is listening for the wrong types of words (i.e. is directed to a wrong domain), the system is likely to misinterpret the input data. Conventionally, since the system components are interdependent, it is inappropriate to simply combine some component performing data capture with some other component performing knowledge representation without further specifying a certain degree of cooperative relationship between the components. Hence, respective conventional systems tend to be quite narrow in their application and are ill-adapted to domain evolution or cross-domain interoperability.
[0018]
Several additional shortcomings are noted in relation to conventional systems performing data capture and knowledge representation. First, such systems only represent knowledge in a restricted sense. For example, the system corresponding to U.S. Pat. No. 6,304,848 correlates key words to putative medical conditions, diagnoses, and treatments, but fails to provide the richness of knowledge representation afforded by a true ontology. As a result, information output by the system is of limited utility to downstream automated processing engines. Similarly, the system corresponding to U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2003/0105638 outputs sentence level semantic information, which is also of limited utility to downstream processing engines. Sentence level semantic information amounts to a number of local snapshots of the input data, none of which may be significantly descriptive in and of itself. Furthermore, where a downstream process is required to assemble the local snapshots into a global conceptual picture, it is valuable for the downstream process to be have access to the original input data so that it can validate its conclusions.
[0019]
Another related shortcoming noted in conventional systems is the unidirectional flow of information. In other words, there are no feedback mechanisms or sanity checks making sure that the data captured actually makes sense. For example, where the system mistakenly captures a word, it can't go back and correct itself once it has a better context for examining the word.
[0020]
What is needed, therefore, is a system capable of receiving unstructured (hereafter, “non-standard”) input data, encoding the data in an appropriate format, and providing a rich and accurate representation of the semantic content of the input data.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0021]
The invention provides in one embodiment a system comprising a syntax processing block and an ontology processing block. The syntax processing block is adapted to receive non-standard input data and generate a corrected data file. The ontology processing block is adapted to receive the corrected data file and generate a standardized output in response to the corrected data file.
[0022]
Depending on a selected application and specific embodiment, the non-standard input data may include at least one of voice, handwriting, text, image data, and an electronic file, and the syntax processing block may include at least one of a voice recognition application, a forms recognition application, an image recognition application, and a file parsing application.
[0023]
In a related aspect, the syntax processing block comprises a capture block wirelessly connected, or wired, to a staging block. For example, the capture block may include a wireless microphone generating a voice transcript signal, and the staging block may include a digital logic platform receiving the voice transcript signal and generating the corrected data file in response to the voice transcript signal. The digital logic platform may take many forms, including but not limited to a Personal Computer (PC), a tablet PC, a laptop PC, or a Personal Digital Assistant (PDA).
[0024]
In one embodiment, the digital logic platform comprises memory and computational logic adapted to run a capture application enabling receipt of the voice transcript signal and generation of a voice data file from the voice transcript signal, a syntax application generating the corrected data file from the voice data file, and/or an interface application enabling a data communication link between the syntax processing block and the ontology processing block.
[0025]
In yet another embodiment, the data communication link connecting the syntax processing block and the ontology processing block may be comprised of one or more of the following: a Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN), a Wireless Metropolitan Area Network (WMAN), an ad-hoc wireless network, a hardwired Local Area Network (LAN), or an Ethernet connected network.
[0026]
In a another embodiment, the system comprises a syntax processing block including a wireless microphone system which receives non-standard voice input data from a user and generates a voice transcript signal in response to the non-standard voice input data and a digital logic platform which wirelessly receives the voice transcript signal and generates a corrected data file. The system further comprises an ontology processing block which receives the corrected data file from the syntax processing block via a data communication link and generates a standardized output in response to the corrected data file.
[0027]
The digital logic platform in one embodiment comprises memory and computational logic adapted to run a syntax application generating the corrected data file from the voice data file. The syntax application may include a criteria-correction subroutine correcting the voice data file in accordance with a criteria defining content for the corrected data file. In a more specific embodiment of the syntax application, the criteria-correction subroutine implements a voice activated, control grammar application directing the receipt of voice input data and providing feedback to the user in relation to the voice data input.
[0028]
In a related embodiment, the ontology processing block comprises a database storing the corrected data file and a server adapted to run an ontology application referencing an ontology in relation to the corrected data file and generating the standardized output in a form accessible to an external system.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0029]
The invention is described below in relation to several embodiments illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Throughout the drawings like reference numbers indicate like exemplary elements, components, or steps. In the drawings:
[0030]
Figure (FIG.) 1 is a broad conceptual illustration of the invention;
[0031]
FIG. 2 is a flowchart illustrating an exemplary method of developing an ontology;
[0032]
FIG. 3 flowchart further illustrating an exemplary method of identifying concepts within the context of an ontology development;
[0033]
FIG. 4 is a conceptual system description illustrating one embodiment of the invention in some additional detail;
[0034]
FIG. 5 is a flowchart illustrating an exemplary data flow through an embodiment of the invention like the one described in relation to FIG. 4;
[0035]
FIG. 6 is a conceptual diagram further illustrating another embodiment of the invention in which a corrected data file is applied to multiple ontologies;
[0036]
FIGS. 7 is a flowchart illustrating one exemplary method of use for the invention in the context of a patient evaluation; and,
[0037]
FIG. 8 is a diagram further illustrating the incorporation of a control grammar and/or grouped data elements in one embodiment of a syntax processing block according to the invention.
DESCRIPTION OF THE EXEMPLARY EMBODIMENTS
[0038]
The invention addresses the general need for a system adapted to capture non-standard input data and generate a standardized output in relation to the non-standard input data. The standardized output is generated by reference to an ontology adapted to extract and/or define knowledge (e.g., semantic content) from a data file that accurately expresses the subject matter of the non-standard input data. Modification, processing, and/or synthesis of the non-standard input data is broadly termed “correction”, and thus the data file accurately expressing the subject matter of the non-standard input data is termed a “corrected data file.”
[0039]
One embodiment of the invention is conceptually illustrated in Figure (Fig.) 1. As shown in FIG. 1, the invention generally comprises a syntax processing block 2 receiving a non-standard data input 1, and generating a corrected data file which serves as an input to one or more ontology processing block 3. Ontology processing block 3 generates a standardized output 4 in relation to the corrected data.
[0040]
Hence, one embodiment of the invention comprises two principal blocks; the syntax processing block and the ontology processing block. In this context, the term “block” has reference to an arbitrary conceptual distinction made between functional aspects of the invention. It should not be read as necessarily defining a hardware/software partition or a partition between two separate hardware platforms or sub-systems. Indeed, the syntax processing block and the ontology processing block may be implemented using a common or separate hardware/software platform(s). This having been said, at least one embodiment of the invention recognizes certain benefits associated with the implementation of the syntax processing block and ontology processing block in separate platforms.
[0041]
As used above, the term “processing” should be read to broadly cover any combination of hardware and/or software functionality capable of implementing the data manipulation, transfer or conversion operations, as well as any logical, mathematical, or access operations necessary to accomplish the design of either principal processing block. Signal and/or data processing may in some embodiments be accomplished by a “digital logic platform” including, for example, a microprocessor, a digital logic unit or processor, a micro-controller, a programmed logic array, a state machine, or similar computational hardware and associated memory (hereafter these conventional elements are generally referred to separately and/or collectively as “computational logic and memory”). Several examples of possible digital logic platforms will be described in some additional detail hereafter.
[0042]
Regardless of the specific nature of the digital hardware platform, it will run one or more applications enabling aspects, features, or functionality associated with embodiments of the invention. The term “run” is used in the broad context normally associated with software execution on a hardware platform. An “application” is any portion of software code enabling at least one function. A “subroutine” is generally used to describe some portion of software code less than an application, but those of ordinary skill in the art will understand that any body of software may be arbitrarily partitioned in many ways to produce multiple applications, multiple subroutines, and/or multiple applications each having multiple subroutines. Nonetheless, reasonable effort has been expended here to describe the exemplary embodiments coherently. So, terms such as “application” and “subroutine” have been used to illustrate possible relationships, but in the end its all “software” subject to great variation in design and implementation.
[0043]
The syntax processing block performs at least one function; it generates a corrected data file in relation to the non-standard input data. “Non-standard input data” is any information bearing data potentially subject to ambiguity, misrepresentation, omission, or error in its use, interpretation, or expression. Audio data, text data (printed or handwritten), electronic file data (independent of storage medium), and/or image data are ready examples of non-standard input data. One or more of these different kinds of input data may be contained in a single “data file.”
[0044]
Consider the example of voice data (i.e., human speech)—a common form of non-standard data. Naturally spoken voice data is classically non-standard. Different speakers express identical information using different words, phrases, tone, pitch, timing, syllable emphasis, and accent. For example, one physician may say “hypertension”, whereas another might say “elevated blood pressure”.
[0045]
Text data is similarly non-standard in its use and expression. Nowhere is this more obvious than in the context of handwriting which is notoriously non-standard. However, even printed text data comes in a variety of fonts, sizes, and print quality. Anyone who has ever tried to read a copy of a copy of a copy understands the problems associated with non-standard text data. Even where handwritten or printed text data is clear and legible, it often includes non-standard expressions. Consider the common prevalence of misspellings, punctuation and grammar errors, formatting and typographical errors. All of the foregoing combine to make text data non-standard in its use and/or expression.
[0046]
Visual or image data is frequently more non-standard than either audio data or text data. Video data (regardless of format), still pictures (black and white, color, film, or digital), and scanned images (e.g., x-rays, MR images, ultrasound images, etc.) are all prone to distortion, bad lighting, errant focus, incorrect views/angles, fading, jitter, hue and chrominance errors, and/or polarization effects, etc.
[0047]
The foregoing are but a few of examples of non-standard input data. Regardless of its specific form, the non-standard use and/or expression of data often obscures the information contained in the data. The noted difficulties in organizing and accessing the increasing wealth of information generated by our society is directly related to the great variety of non-standard uses and expressions that characterize the data.
[0048]
Accordingly, the syntax processing block of the invention receives or accepts non-standard input data and corrects for one or more types of non-standard use or expression to generate a “corrected data file.” A “data file” in this context may be any form of data susceptible to storage, transfer, and/or access. The particular type of storage medium and/or access technology may vary widely. In a related aspect, the corrected data file may be generated in a form that enables a logical or indexed search of the data file. However, this need not be the case, so long as the data contained in the data file is syntactically correct according to a predefined syntactical specification.
[0049]
In this regard, the word “syntax” as used in the term “syntax processing block” should not be read in only the limited context of a grammar—like those associated with a language, whether human or computer. Rather, syntax should be broadly read as describing a connected or orderly system, a set of relationships, and/or a harmonious arrangement of components or elements. Such “components or elements” may include, for example, symbols, words, phrases, relationships, concepts, visual images, and expressions. Thus, the practical process of syntactically correcting non-standard input data may take a variety of different forms.
[0050]
In the context of voice data, an example of syntax correction may include application of speech recognition techniques, such as parsing, pattern or context interpretation, specialized word or phrase recognition, natural language processing, grammar and linking determinations, statistical analysis, semantic relationship analysis, and/or probabilistic modeling of lexical semantics.
[0051]
In the context of text data, syntax correction may include application of handwriting recognition techniques, such as line definition, character boundary definition, segmentation, and/or parsing, trait analysis and inventory, geometric, and/or stochastic stroke or point modeling. Syntax correction of text data may also include spelling and grammar correction, sentence and paragraph parsing, and concept extraction.
[0052]
Similarly, syntax correction of image data may include application of image correction and enhancement techniques, such as position correction, skew correction, gradient generation, image interpolation, image component extraction, enlargement or reduction, hue and chrominance adjustment, pixilation, statistical analysis, etc.
[0053]
Syntax correction of electronic files may include application of data processing techniques, such as file conversion, formatting, parsing, data or concept extraction or linking, word or context analysis, statistical analysis, etc.
[0054]
Syntax correction will most commonly be made in embodiments of the invention by means of various applications and/or subroutines running on a digital logic platform.
[0055]
In the context of the syntax processing block, syntax correction may include more than one form or manner of correction. Indeed, syntax correction is not limited to only the application of techniques designed to improve the quality of constituent data components (e.g., words and phrases). For later reference purposes, this form of correction is termed “component-correction,” and is understood to encompass a broad range of data component correction techniques, such as those applied to digital data, alphanumeric characters, words or phrase, image components, or textual errors, etc.
[0056]
Additionally or alternatively, non-standard input data may be corrected as a larger body of data (e.g., groups including multiple components) or in a conceptual context according some defined criteria. Hereafter, this form of correction is termed “criteria-correction.” For example, criteria-correction may implicate an accounting or quality control mechanism assuring that data is complete or properly defined as a body of information. Thus, a building inspector providing non-standard input data to a syntax processing block according to the invention might be required to include data regarding the electrical, plumbing, and mechanical systems of the building being inspected. Any attempt by the inspector to conclude the inspection and generate a documenting data file without fully addressing all three system types would result in an error message by the system indicting an “incorrect” data file. Thereafter, the inspector would be able to either properly complete the inspection or specifically note an exception to the criteria requirement. In this manner, the corrected data file resulting from the inspector's work is defined in accordance with a criteria mandating information of a certain type, character, or quality.
[0057]
Data authentication, verification, audit marking, or similar security mechanisms are ready examples of potential criteria used for criteria-correction. Thus, in one embodiment, a data file is not acceptable as a syntax processing block output until it has been properly designated for authenticity with an authorship identifier, a digital signature, etc. In another embodiment, a data file is not acceptable as a syntax processing block output until it has been associated with a security key, such as an encryption/decryption key. In these and other selected embodiments of the invention, the syntax processing block will issue a correction demand or otherwise note non-compliance with a mandated criteria until such time as it receives the mandated input data.
[0058]
The ontology processing block in the foregoing embodiments performs at least one function; it generates a standardized output in relation to the corrected data file. The manner in which a corrected data file references an ontology within the ontology processing block to generate the standardized output is defined in large measure by the nature and content of the underlying ontology.
[0059]
An “ontology” in the context of the invention has a meaning distinct from that associated with this term as it is used in field of philosophical metaphysics. Rather, the term is used here in the context of knowledge representation. In one context applicable to the invention, the term may be construed to mean a conceptualization specification. That is, an ontology is a description of concepts and relationships that may exist for specific components or elements, or between a collection of components and elements.
[0060]
In one embodiment of the invention, the conceptualization specification is defined by an ontology forming a hierarchy of related concepts. This hierarchy (e.g., a tree structure) is initially formed by linking concepts together in simple (lower order) “IS_A” relationships to create a taxonomy. Yet, an ontology within the meaning of the invention is more than a taxonomy, a simple classification of vocabulary components, or an index to vocabulary components. Although a taxonomy contributes to the semantics of the respective components, an ontology defines a richer set of relationships between each component and one or more other concepts. It is these rich (higher order) relationships that enable the expression of domain-specific knowledge, without the requirement of necessarily including domain-specific concepts. Accordingly, an ontology is always associated with a subject matter domain.
[0061]
An ontology formed in accordance with the foregoing is particularly well-suited to share a common understanding of the structure of information contained in a corrected data file. This communication of a common understanding may occur between agents of any (and/or differing) types, including information systems and human users. Hence, the ontology enables embodiments of the invention to be hardware agnostic.
[0062]
An ontology also enables the efficient reuse of stored domain knowledge. It allows domain assumptions to be explicitly stated and/or negotiated. It allows domain knowledge to be separated from collateral or operational knowledge. Hence, the body of stored domain knowledge may be significantly reduced in volume. Finally, the ontology allows a domain to be efficiently analyzed. Formal analysis of components is extremely valuable when both attempting to reuse existing ontologies or extending them.
[0063]
It should be noted in this context that building a domain-competent ontology is not the end goal of the invention, although the utility and efficiency of the various embodiments of the invention will be derived in large measure from the quality of the ontology implicated in an ontology processing block. Thus, in one related aspect of the invention, ontology development may be considered a process of defining data and data structures (i.e., components) to be accessed by an external agent. To better understand how this is accomplished, the process of ontology development should be described in the context of one or more embodiments.
[0064]
Ontology development is inherently specific. There is no one correct method of developing an ontology. There are always viable alternatives and the best solution almost always depends on the ontology's application and its contemplated extensions. This having been said, practical ontology development is necessarily an iterative process. Generally, a rough first pass is made, and thereafter the ontology is sequentially defined and refined through actual use, testing, and refinement modeling. Additionally, the concepts in an ontology should be closely related to objects (physical or logical) and/or relationships associated within the selected domain. Where words or phrases are used as ontology components to describe concepts, for example, nouns will most likely define objects and verbs will most likely define relationships.
[0065]
With the foregoing cautions and general commentary in mind, the flowchart shown in FIG. 2 illustrates one embodiment of a method adapted to the development of an ontology.
[0066]
The exemplary flowchart shown in FIG. 2 comprises five (5) general steps, including; identifying the ontology's purpose (10), choosing a design approach for the ontology (11), identifying concepts, components and conventions (12), constructing the ontology (13), and maintaining the ontology (14).
[0067]
Before creation of an ontology begins, it is essential to establish its intent, focus, and boundaries in the context of a solution to some knowledge-based problem or representation. An ontology's structure is driven by its purpose. Commonly occurring purposes include linking multiple vocabularies, standardizing concepts across a range of systems, providing a defined lexicon to drive a subsequent evaluation tool, aggregating or categorizing data across disparate systems, or supporting an expert system (i.e., a decision-making system).
[0068]
In almost every case, definition of a clear purpose requires definition of a domain and its scope (10A), a determination of possible users (10B), and a decision on one or more end points (10C). Domain and domain scope definition may be performed in consultation with subject matter experts and/or interested parties, like customers or suppliers. The domain scope is integrally related to end point definition and user determination.
[0069]
Once the ontology's purpose has been identified, a design approach decision follows (11). Clearly, no one design approach is better than another. Design approach is driven in great measure by the purpose, domain scope, and users contemplated for the ontology. It is, however, quite common to begin an ontology with the definition of a hierarchy. Thus, the type of hierarchy will often suggest a design approach. For example, a top-down approach may work well when general concepts are known, but more specialized and/or subordinated concepts need to be better defined. In contrast, a bottom-up approach may work well where a multiplicity of specific concepts require grouping or broader classification. Finally, a combination of these two general approaches may be used where obvious concepts are initially defined at multiple levels and additional related concepts, both broad and more specific, must be added thereafter.
[0070]
Once a general design approach has been identified, the identification of concepts and components begins. This stage of ontology development typically requires the most “heavy-lifting.” To reduce the burden involved in the definition of concepts and components, it is generally advisable to research existing ontologies, vocabularies, taxonomies, etc. (concept aggregations) for insights or even outright incorporation within the ontology being developed (12A). Many ontologies/concept aggregations are available in electronic form and may be imported in whole or in part. In this regard, the format of expression for the other ontology is immaterial since it can usually be translated with relative ease prior to incorporation. There are, however, many considerations to the importation of an existing ontology or concept aggregation, including; the purpose, the fit or form-factor, its base language, import and export capabilities, graphical abilities, modeling features and limitations, its proprietary verses open-source nature, licensing requirements and costs, and extensibility.
[0071]
Next key concepts are identified (12B) and defined (12C). Within the context of the ontology's domain, existing models, lexicons, and similar or related ontologies may be examined to identify key concepts. Here again, the use of existing subject matter decreases development costs and promotes semantic interoperability. Existing subject matter may be found in a variety of sources including websites, technical and trade journals, and research reports.
[0072]
The inclusion or exclusion of concepts from the defined domain largely defines the ontology. Concept identification may be accomplished, for example, by use of a concept coverage study of a domain-specific corpus of information, including documents, electronic data files, textbooks, web pages, journal articles, etc. Parsing of the corpus may be done electronically, using for example a natural language processor and text extraction program followed (optionally) by manual review. Concepts identified by a concept coverage study may thereafter be compared to standards and existing lexicons, taxonomies, and/or ontologies.
[0073]
Once identified, concepts are typically placed within a linkage model defined, by simple IS_A relationships. These simple relationships are driven by the identification of properties associated with the various concepts, as supported by information derived from the corpus of information, and additionally including input from one or more subject matter experts.
[0074]
The identified concepts are next defined (10C). This can be a lengthy and troublesome process, since many strings (e.g., words) have multiple meanings across various contexts and even within a narrow context. For example, within a domain related to the medical evaluation of a patient, the term “COLD” may indicate a temperature, a physical sensation, mood or feeling, a commonly occurring viral infection, or Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease. Hence, conceptual definitions should provide a context that is consistent with the domain. Forming an appropriate definition will allow the ontology developer to determine which concepts can be merged based on the synonymy. Knowledge of the definition will also influence naming conventions.
[0075]
The flowchart of FIG. 3 illustrates an exemplary method for defining concepts within the development of an ontology. First, a concept is identified (20). The concept is examined to determine whether one or more definition exists (21). Where but a single definition exists (21=no), the definition is further examined to determined whether the definition fits the purpose of the ontology (22). Where the definition is unrelated to the purpose of the ontology (22=no), the concept is deleted from the ontology development environment. If, however, the single definition does fit within the purpose of the ontology (22=yes), it is modeled within the ontology development environment (25).
[0076]
Returning to the first determination (21), where the concept has more than one definition (21=yes), the concept is further examined to determine if any one of the definitions fits the ontology purpose (24). If not (24=no), the concept is deleted (23). If, however, one or more of the concept definitions fits the ontology purpose (24=yes), the concept is modeled within the ontology development environment (25).
[0077]
It should be noted that the logical placement of concepts within an ontology necessarily implies definition properties. Properties are domain and purpose specific, and define how data in the ontology is presented and structured. That is, the selection of properties and relationships to be included in the ontology is determined by the purpose and scope of the ontology, as well as the analysis of the domain. Exemplary properties for a given ontology concept include a corresponding definition and synonyms. The inclusion of synonyms is critical for semantic interoperability of the ontology. Similarly, an important goal for many ontologies is reuse, or the use of the ontology in applications other than the application for which the ontology was originally intended. An understanding of the concepts and the thought processes used in the development of the ontology is essential to the reuse of the ontology. As a result, the explicit textual definition of concepts increases the usefulness of the ontology.
[0078]
In a similar vein, ontologies ideally provide a unique identifier for each concept. Unique identifiers in such embodiments should be context-free. Ideally, the unique identifier is searchable and automatically generated by the ontology building tool.
[0079]
Relationships define possible or existing connections between concepts. Any reasonable number of relationships may exist in an ontology. The “IS_A” relationship is fundamental to any ontology, and is sometimes termed a parent-child relationship. The selection of other relationships beyond the IS_A relationship is a matter of design choice and will be driven by the intended purpose, scope and use of the ontology. A taxonomy becomes an ontology when more than just “IS_A” relationship types exist. The inclusion of more specific relationships types results in a more semantically rich ontology. Other exemplary relationships include: “PART_OF”; “MAPS_TO”; and “INTERACTS_WITH”.
[0080]
The establishment of conventions is not illustrated in the flowchart of FIG. 2, but is typically deemed necessary as part of either the identification phase (12) or the construction phase (13). Conventions are rules on how to build the ontology, and may be categorized as being one of two general types; modeling conventions and naming conventions. Exemplary modeling conventions may include such statements as: “all children have a parent”; “children have only one parent”; or “a concept may not be both a sibling and a parent to another concept”. Exemplary naming conventions may include such statements as: “all properties use lower camel case”; “all concepts use upper camel case”; and “words in multi-word concepts are connected with underscores”. The early agreement on and communication of conventions tends to increase the efficiency of the ontology development and minimize re-work.
[0081]
With a purpose identified, a design approach selected, and concepts, relationships, components and conventions identified, the ontology is ready for construction. The practical mechanics for building an ontology will vary, but in one embodiment generally include selecting an appropriate ontology building tool (13A), and selecting an extraction/analysis tool (13B). Following these two selections, concepts and properties are added to the ontology using the development tool, a concept hierarchy is defined according to a set of IS_A relationships, and thereafter one or more relationships are added to the ontology beyond the IS_A relationship(s).
[0082]
Selection of an appropriate ontology building tool should take into consideration many factors. First, the ontology building tool must be evaluated in the manner it provides for modeling concepts. Concept creation and addition techniques are an important consideration. Concept modeling should employ formal and informal techniques for capturing, manipulating and specifying relationships between concepts, and should allow organization of same within a hierarchical structure. The development tool should allow for concept mapping, i.e., the process of identifying the concept or concept group closest in meaning relative to one or more vocabularies. The development tool should also have the ability to link synonymous concepts between vocabularies in a concept matching process. The development tool should further provide an efficient mechanism for navigating the ontology hierarchy, thereby allowing the developer to see where certain concepts currently reside within in the hierarchy or where certain concepts are missing from the hierarchy.
[0083]
The development tool should also allow the ontology to be effectively queried. For example, concepts should be selectable on the basis of similar criteria, according to multiple definitions, or according to when or who edited them. Merged concepts, recently added concepts, source concepts, and target concepts should be readily queried.
[0084]
The process of selecting an ontology development tool (13A) is routinely, but not necessarily, accompanied by the selection of an extraction and analysis tool (13B) which may be applied to the concepts arranged in the ontology. Iterative application of these and related tools ultimately yields the finished ontology.
[0085]
Application of Quality Control (QC) and maintenance processes (14) ensure the initial development is adequate and safeguard the long-term usefulness of the ontology, respectively. The QC techniques applied to the ontology will vary according to design approach, but may include queries for adherence to rules and conventions; checks for orphan concepts (i.e., concepts that exist in the ontology but are not connected in the hierarchy); queries to identify and/or clarify ambiguous terms and homographs (e.g., concepts with identical strings); checks for multiple parents; and checks for circular or redundant concepts.
[0086]
Since an ontology is never really complete because new concepts are always emerging, maintenance becomes an important ontology consideration. Exemplary ontology maintenance standards have been promulgated in ISO/TS 17117. At a minimum, an ontology should include version control, an audit trail and undergo regular reviews.
[0087]
With the conceptual illustration of FIG. 1 and the foregoing discussion in mind, another more specific embodiment of the invention is illustrated in FIG. 4. The syntax processing block 2 of FIG. 4 is further described as comprising a capture block 2A and a staging block 2B. These functionally related blocks are further illustrated in various layers in the context of a working example.
[0088]
The working example is described in reference to an embodiment of the invention adapted to a patient evaluation system. Within this particular system, choices regarding sub-system boundaries, and hardware/software types and partitions are made in the context of the working example and are merely exemplary. Different embodiments of the invention would almost certainly result in different design choices.
[0089]
However, turning again to FIG. 4, the capture block comprises a wireless microphone system 33 as a hardware layer including a wireless microphone 31 physically associated with a system user (e.g., a healthcare practitioner). The wireless microphone system 33 comprises voice capturing software 30 in the application layer which allows generation of a voice transcript signal 32 in the data layer. In the context of working example, any type of conventional or custom microphone capture devices, such as Motorola BlueTooth® microphones, INTEC's “Lucy” microphone, or Vocera's voice-over-IP communications device may be used to implement a capture block. Regardless of specific hardware implementation, the voice transcript signal 32 is wirelessly communicated to the staging block 2B.
[0090]
While certainly not required in the broadest implementations, wireless communication of a capture block generated data signal to an associated staging block is a noteworthy aspect of some embodiments of the invention. For example, a healthcare practitioner (e.g., a nurse, physician, or technician) often has his/her hands full with equipment or may require one or both hands during a procedure. Accordingly, a hands-free data capture capability would be highly beneficial. This is true of other potential system users including inspectors, maintenance personnel, researchers, and investigators.
[0091]
Staging block 2B is adapted to perform any number of data capture syntax correction, and related processes—typically through the execution of corresponding capture application(s), syntax application(s) and/or interface application(s). In the working example, a laptop or tablet Personal Computer (PC) or a Personal Digital Assistant (PDA) system 45 may be conveniently used as a digital logic platform implementing staging block 2B. This digital logic platform is located within communication range (e.g., in the same room or on the same building floor) of the wireless microphone 31 which forms the capture block's physical layer. Upon receiving the voice transcript signal 32 generated by the wireless microphone 31, the digital logic platform 43 runs a capture application 40 adapted to convert the voice transcript signal into a voice data file, such as a streaming audio file or text file 44 as defined by the data layer of the staging block 2B.
[0092]
Appropriate interface applications 42 connect staging block 2B with capture block 2A and/or ontology processing block 3. For example, a signal processing, data decompression, and/or noise reduction application may be run in relation to the voice transcript signal before a voice data file is created by a capture application. Similarly, one or more interface applications 42 may packetize and encrypt the resulting corrected data file before initiating data packet transfer to the ontology processing block 3.
[0093]
The syntax application(s) 41 operate on a non-standard, input data file between capture application 40 and an interface applications 42. In the context of the working example, any number of conventional or custom speech recognition applications may be used, such as IBM's ViaVoice® or ScanSoft's Dragon Dictate®. U.S. Pat. No. 6,292,771 further illustrates a collection of related processes adapted to convert a voice transcription signal into a grammatically proper data file having incorporated correctly used medical terminology. The subject matter of this application is hereby incorporated by reference. Additional examples of competent syntax applications adapted for use within a staging block of the invention will be discussed in some additional detail below.
[0094]
By operation of the staging block 2B in cooperation with the capture block 2A, a corrected data file is generated in response to the non-standard voice data input by the healthcare practitioner. Once completed, this corrected data file is communicated to the ontology processing block 3. In the working example, the ontology processing block 3 may be remotely located (e.g., somewhere else in the hospital or in a separate facility located anywhere) from the staging block (2B). The data communication path may be implemented using a wireless network (e.g., a WLAN, WMAN, or ad-hoc (802.11 or Bluetooth) network), a hardwire connected (e.g., an Ethernet) link, or even the World Wide Web. In one related aspect, communication of the corrected data file is facilitated using conventional data packet communication and/or encryption techniques.
[0095]
A system server 52 forms the physical layer of ontology processing block 3 and may be implemented using one or more conventional severs and associated equipment 54. Data files related to an ontology 53, as well as output data files, related reports, and/or bulk digital data files storing received corrected data files may be stored in a database, such as those manufactured by MySQL or Oracle, or in the file system of the operating system or in any persistent data storage, associated with the system server 52. Again, competent interface applications 51 allow the transfer, storage, and consumption of corrected data files within the ontology processing block 3.
[0096]
One or more ontologies and related ontology application(s) 50 in the application layer form the heart of ontology processing block 3. In some embodiments of the invention, the ontology will be coupled with a Natural Language Processing (NLP) application, a Natural Language Understanding (NLU) application, or similar computational linguistics application. Alternatively, language processing capability may be incorporated in the syntax processing block. NLP applications and their like are conventional and generally apply computational models to better understand and characterize natural language. Such applications are particularly valuable where a free-form human voice input is expected to interface with a digital logic system.
[0097]
An optional, but potentially valuable aspect of the invention is indicated by the separate feedback arrows shown in FIG. 4. The invention contemplates continual incremental improvements in the cooperation between capture block 2A and staging block 2B, and between syntax processing block 2 and ontology processing block 3. Feedback from staging block 2B to capture block 2A may take the form of visual user feedback (e.g., grouped data elements), whereby the healthcare practitioner sees on a visual display the results or system reaction to his/her voice input. This type of feedback is particularly important where the voice data is subject to criteria correction by the staging block 2B.
[0098]
Feedback from ontology processing block 3 to syntax processing block 2 may take many forms including packet data transmission statistics, data file errors, or “learning” or context information indicating correction refinement or adjustments.
[0099]
The embodiment shown in FIG. 4 is intended to be hardware independent, but several benefits are apparent from the working example. First, separate hardware platforms may be used to respectively implement the syntax processing block and the ontology processing blocks. The syntax processing block which in the embodiment comprises the capture block is relatively cheap, small, highly mobile. Thus, multiple syntax processing blocks may be efficiently used in relation to one ontology processing block which is relatively larger and more expensive. The ontology processing block may be located in a secure facility away from patients and healthcare practitioners (e.g., in a building-wide or regional server).
[0100]
Conventionally available hardwired and wireless networks provide adequate data security and authentication protocols and mechanisms. Accordingly, data integrity may be ensured at minimum cost.
[0101]
The flowchart shown in FIG. 5 further illustrates an exemplary flow of data through the system described in relation to FIG. 4. The data flow begins with a healthcare practitioner speaking freely as he/she conducts a patient evaluation. From this flow of non-standard voice data, the exemplary system will ultimately generate a standardized billing report accurately defining billing codes from the substance of the patient evaluation. As the healthcare practitioner speaks, a wireless microphone picks-up the voice data (60) and generates a corresponding voice transcript signal (61). The voice transcript signal is communicated to the staging block where it is captured in a voice file (e.g., streaming audio or a text file) (62). The combination of wireless microphone and speech recognition application running in the laptop or tablet PC may be conventional. Alternatively, conventional speech recognition software may be customized via the incorporation of a healthcare-specific lexicon. That is, words and phrases normally occurring in routine conversation are processed using the conventional speech recognition application. However, where an esoteric health term or phrase is used by the healthcare practitioner, the lexicon is queried to determine the appropriate word or phrase. The use of an appropriate application to provide access to a lexicon is an excellent example of component-correction (63). That is, the selected words (i.e., components) forming a portion of the non-standard input data are correctly interpreted and defined within a corresponding data file.
[0102]
At this point it should be noted that the syntax processing block may utilize an ontology of its own. Here, for example, health terms may not only be properly interpreted from the voice input data, but also associated with supplemental information derived from one or more related ontologies.
[0103]
Following component correction (63), the captured voice file (now called a “data file”) may be additionally (and optionally) subjected to criteria correction (64). Where the resulting data file is not complete (65=no), feedback is generated (66) and communicated to the system user (e.g., a visual indication on the laptop PC, and/or an audio error indication). Thereafter, the user may enter additional voice data to correct the indicated problem until the data file is complete or an exception is duly noted. In this example, the patient evaluation may include certain minimal global criteria or criteria specially mandated as a result of the ongoing or previous evaluations.
[0104]
Once the corrected data file is component corrected and complete as to all relevant criteria (65=yes), it is communicated to the ontology processing block (67).
[0105]
Ontologies by their very nature are highly susceptible to errors resulting from erroneous inputs. That is, the concepts and relationships defining the ontology are defined in relation to input components (e.g., vocabulary terms). Accordingly, errant input components are highly likely to produce errant ontology outputs. By correcting a data file in relation to components and/or criteria, the benefits offered by the ontology are maximized.
[0106]
For example, healthcare billing codes are notoriously numerous, subtle in their distinction, yet highly important for accurate financial compensation. An ontology correlating patient evaluation data with billing code data is, thus, dependent on the accuracy of the patient evaluation data. Hence, the significance of the syntax processing block between the non-standard voice input and front end of the ontology.
[0107]
By applying the ontology (68) to a properly corrected data file, an accurate standardized output (e.g., billing codes) may be generated.
[0108]
Within the invention, the ontology forms at least part of a reference knowledge base. This reference knowledge base need only span the scope of the relevant domain. However, multiple ontologies may be applied to a single corrected data file in order to produce multiple standard outputs. In this manner, respective ontologies may be efficiently developed and maintained in relation to a properly scoped domain.
[0109]
For example, consider the data flow shown in FIG. 6. A corrected data file 70 is communicated from a syntax processing block to an ontology processing block having multiple ontologies. Upon receipt in the ontology processing block, the corrected data file may be stored without further data processing in a clinical data repository 71 for future reference. The corrected data file is also passed to billing ontology 72 and compliance ontology 74. Billing ontology 72 extracts a proper set of billing codes and/or internal accounting codes from the subject matter of the corrected data file and generates a standardized billing report which may thereafter be sent to an accounting records file. Compliance ontology 74 examines, for example, the time spent with the patient in relation to a number of factors including the diagnosis, the nature of the patient, the healthcare practitioner's relative experience, etc., in order to generate a standardized Quality Assurance (QA)/Quality Control (QC) report.
[0110]
Thus, a single corrected data file may be used as input data to multiple ontologies. Each ontology may generate a different standardized output. Alternatively, a sequence of ontologies may be cascaded to sequentially generate standardized outputs. For example, the billing codes produced by billing ontology 72 might be applied to a financial QA/QC ontology designed to examine billing statistics and trends.
[0111]
The term “standardized output” has been used to describe the output of an ontology application implemented in the ontology processing block. This term should be read as encompassing any output form acceptable to an external system, whether human or machine. For example, nearly every profession and industry defines certain data standards or protocols. In the context of the healthcare application discussed as a working example thus far, there are many standards that might serve to define the exact nature and content of the system's output, including standards established by the Health Insurance Portability & Accountability Act (HIPM), Systematized Nomenclature of Medicine—Clinical Terms (SNOMED CT), International Classification of Diseases: gth revision, Clinical Modification (ICD-9-CM), Current Procedural Terminology (CPT), Health Level 7 (HL7), Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine (DICOM), Food & Drug Administration (FDA), Veterans Affairs (VA), National Library of Medicine (NLM), and the World Health Organization (WHO), etc.
[0112]
There are many fields of endeavor wherein embodiments of the invention might find beneficial application, and most of these fields have numerous standards—many of which are government mandated. For example, inspections (e.g., building, insurance, home, utilities, and social services), accounting audits, investigations (e.g., fire, police, medical and insurance), and maintenance (e.g., aircraft and shipping) are ready examples of fields of endeavor in which non-standard data must ultimately be converted into a standardized output (e.g., a report).
[0113]
The same can be said for other fields of endeavor that while less regulated by government or industry mandated standards, nevertheless benefit greatly from adherence to an agreed upon standard. Consider for example such fields as research (e.g. legal, scientific, or academic) and customer self-service.
[0114]
The term “standard” or “standardized” in the foregoing context may have reference to either the content and/or the form factor of the resulting output. That is, in the context of the working example, the standardized output might not only include properly identified and related billing codes, but also be presented in a form ready for immediate consumption by downstream systems (e.g., be interface ready via HL7 or XML, etc.).
[0115]
It has previously been noted that powerful embodiments of the invention may be implemented using a non-standard voice data input coupled with a speech recognition application. In a further refinement of this particular aspect, the invention contemplates the additional provision of voice actuated control over the manner of data input. In one related embodiment, voice actuated control may be implemented using a control grammar. The control grammar is likely to be specific to the domain or knowledge encompassed by capture and/or syntax applications running on the staging block. Control grammar implementation may even be accomplished by a separate application running on the staging block hardware platform.
[0116]
In this context and throughout this disclosure, it should be noted that various application types (e.g., interface, syntax, capture, etc.) are merely arbitrary distinctions used to identify certain common functionality found in the exemplary embodiments. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that a single omnibus application might implement all software functionality in the syntax processing block and/or the ontology processing block. This is, however, unlikely for practical reasons. Nonetheless, no partition boundaries between various software implemented functionalities is intended by the descriptive references to one or more applications.
[0117]
Thus, in the embodiment being described, the control grammar is linked to software subroutines enabling navigation of one or more enabling applications without a requirement for the use of traditional input devices, such as keyboard entries, mouse/menu selections, etc. While such traditional input are certainly enabled in the invention, the grammar control embodiment seeks to preserve the option of completely hands-free operation of the system.
[0118]
For example, consider the exemplary patient evaluation illustrated by the flowchart shown in FIG. 7. A system such as the one previously described is assumed in this example. A first healthcare practitioner (e.g., a nurse) begins a patient evaluation by speaking a system use authorization command word or phrase into his/her wireless microphone (80). (Hereafter, the term “command word” will be used to mean both single words and short command phrases). This command word might be as simple as, “BEGIN”, or might require a more extensive expression, “THIS IS NURSE JANE DOE, AUTHORIZATION CODE 12345.” Voice recognition software in the staging block allows access to the system in response to a properly given authorization command word (81). Alternatively or additionally, biometrics or simple passwords might be used to control access to the system.
[0119]
Next, the nurse speaks one of two command words, “NEW PATIENT” or “EXISTING PATIENT” (82). If the new patient command is given, the system responds by creating a new record and (optionally) displaying grouped data elements for the new record on a PDA (or other the staging block-associated display) in the examination room.
[0120]
The term “grouped data elements” is used to describe any visual user feedback mechanism designed to aid the user in the entry of data. In one embodiment, grouped data elements may resemble a data entry template or form visually communicating to a user which data fields have already been addressed. However, the optional use of grouped data elements as a visual feedback mechanism in the invention should not be construed as a requirement by the invention to “lock-in” data entry to a predefined form or sequence. Indeed, embodiments of the invention are designed to provide complete freedom of data entry, and a nurse or physician may navigate the data entry options (and optionally associated grouped data elements) at will, and in a non-linear fashion. Thus, while certain grouped data elements may be used to conveniently facilitate the organized retrieval, review and/or entry of data, they do not constrain the system user to a particular flow of data entry or sequence in patient evaluation. For example, a healthcare practitioner could detail a patient's vitals signs, immediately proceed to an Assessment and Plan, instantly navigate back to a Review of Systems, etc. without having to re-orient the application. The control grammar functionality within the Syntax Processing Block differentiates between commands, scalar values, and paragraph-based prose, and allows for non-sequential navigation.
[0121]
Returning to the flowchart of FIG. 7, for example, grouped data elements corresponding to basic patient data (e.g., name, age, address, health insurance, etc.) may be displayed to aid the nurse in proper creation of a new patient record (83). Of course, it is not required that a nurse enter the basic patient data or initiate a new patient record. A receptionist or even the patient may be given limited access to the system to manually and/or verbally enter this data.
[0122]
Existing patients fall into one of two categories; those with an existing (current) encounter record (84=existing) and those requiring initiation of a new encounter record (84=new). This distinction is required since embodiments of the invention contemplate multiple healthcare practitioners accessing a common patient encounter record. Thus, a first healthcare practitioner seeing the patient will indicate a “new encounter” and a corresponding new encounter record will be formed in response to appropriate command words (86). Second and subsequent healthcare practitioners seeing the patient during an encounter will indicate “an existing encounter record” (e.g., by number or patient name) using an appropriate command word, whereupon the system will call-up the existing encounter record (85).
[0123]
With an encounter record properly called-up, the healthcare practitioner is ready to begin a free-form patient evaluation. The multiple parallel paths illustrated in the flowchart of FIG. 7 are merely a selected collection of examples. Any number of patient evaluation options may be included consistent with the scope of the medical practice, patient type, etc. Further, as previously indicated, the patient evaluation options provided by a system may be traversed in any manner, with or without the aid of a control grammar and/or grouped data elements.
[0124]
However, continuing with the working example, the nurse preferably performs a nurse assessment (95) which may or may not include; taking a patient history (past 87, family 88, or social 89), querying the patient on allergies (90) and/or current medications (92). The nurse assessment may include taking the patient's vital signs (89), discussing the patient's chief complaint (100), and/or discussing the history of the present illness (94). Each one of these general patient evaluation options may be independently undertaken in response to a spoken command word or manual data input. Within each option, free-form text may be input to one or more text box(es) associated with a grouped data element displayed in response to the command word or manual data input.
[0125]
At some point following the completion of his/her assessment, the nurse will save the accumulated patient evaluation data (93).
[0126]
Once the nurse has completed his/her portion of the patient evaluation, a second healthcare practitioner (such as a physician) may continue the evaluation. The healthcare practitioner authorizes use of the system (80), is given access (81), and accesses the existing encounter record (84=existing and 85). Here again, the healthcare practitioner's use of the system is largely if not entirely unconstrained in its flow. However, the system may also demand that certain criteria be addressed during the patient evaluation by one or more of the healthcare practitioners. For example, the second healthcare practitioner may be required at some point during his/her portion of the patient evaluation to review and/or approve the nurse assessment. The patient evaluation may require a redundant entry of critical data, such as allergies, current medications, etc.
[0127]
Nonetheless, the healthcare practitioner may conduct his/her patient evaluation with his/her unique flow, vocabulary style, and manner—so long as established criteria are ultimately addressed. During the physician portion of the patient evaluation, the physician may conduct a review of systems (96), perform a physical examination (99), state a diagnosis (107), summarize a disposition (102), prescribe or perform a procedure (106), or record an assessment and plan (104). The system also provides a healthcare practitioner with the ability to order medications (108), x-rays (105), labs (103), and additional consultations (109). Also the healthcare practitioner may record vital signs (89) and face-to-face time (98).
[0128]
Following completion of his/her evaluation, the healthcare practitioner may review the patient encounter record or some portion of it (101), approve (i.e., sign) it (111) and submit it (112). Either before or after the patient encounter record is approved and submitted, the healthcare practitioner may code (97) the encounter record for billing purposes. Should the physician or nurse desire to add explanatory or corrective information to a submitted encounter record, a comments note may be appended to the encounter record (110).
[0129]
While the system is preferably designed in many embodiments to provide maximum flexibility to a healthcare practitioner's evaluation style, it need not be only a passive data receiver. In addition to the optional use of command words, grouped data element feedback mechanisms, and criteria based correction mechanisms, the system may be designed to be interactive in real time with a user.
[0130]
In response to key words or concepts extracted from the entry of patient evaluation data, the system may optionally suggest (or require) the collection of supplemental information regarding the patient. For example, if the patient complains of “being tired and thirsty all the time” during a nurse assessment, the system may prompt the nurse to inquire regarding a history of diabetes in the patient's family. The system may thereafter flag a consultation page in the patient's encounter record with a highlighted note of “POSSIBLE DIABETES” upon submission of the nurse's assessment. This highlighted note will be seen by the healthcare practitioner as he/she begins his/her portion of the patient evaluation. Additionally, the indication of possible diabetes may be used by the syntax processing block to identify and/or further refine a lexicon of medical terminology likely to be used by the healthcare practitioner during his portion of the patient evaluation. (This is one example of feedback from the ontology processing block to the syntax processing block).
[0131]
As noted above, the foregoing example may incorporate a voice enabled application incorporating a control grammar. The control grammar allows a system user to navigate a potentially complex series of tasks using only his or her voice. A hierarchy of command words (and possible synonyms) may be constructed to allow logical progression through a patient evaluation. For example, a sequence of specific vital signs may be obligatorily or optionally implicated once the command word “VITALS” is spoken (e.g., temperature, blood pressure, pulse, height, weight, etc.).
[0132]
Indeed, any number of subordinated command word menus may be used during each option and phase of a patient evaluation. Certain critical command words, such as “allergies” and “current medications” may be designated for mandatory inclusion in all patient evaluations.
[0133]
FIG. 8 further illustrates the use of a command grammar and grouped data elements feedback within an embodiment of the invention using a voice enabled application. A user's verbally communicates non-standard data to capture block 2A. Capture block 2A captures the non-standard input data, forms a voice transcript signal which is wirelessly communicated to staging block 2B. A control grammar application running on staging block 2B is responsive to command words extracted from the voice transcript signal or resulting voice data file to display grouped data elements 6 on the a display 5 associated with staging block 2B. Display 5 may be a wall mounted monitor, a the screen of a laptop or PDA, etc. The user is able to track his/her progress through a particular portion of the patient evaluation by looking at the grouped data elements on the display.
[0134]
As indicated in the example above, the invention contemplates multiple users cooperating to develop a single corrected data file or multiple, related, corrected data files. For example, a plumbing inspector, an electrical inspector, and a structural inspector might access a common building inspection data file and enter data within their own specialty. In a similar vein, a healthcare practitioner might seamlessly access and complete a patient evaluation begun by an administrative assistant entering basic patient data and/or a nurse entering a nurse assessment.
[0135]
The working example is drawn in part to the preparation of accurate billing codes corresponding to a patient evaluation. Thus, a complete, corrected data file is sent from the syntax processing block to the ontology processing block, where a competent ontology identifies all pertinent and/or possible billing codes corresponding to the patient evaluation. The billing codes may be communicated in real time to the healthcare practitioner's PC for review and approval (e.g., digitally signing and ending the session). Alternatively, a summary of billing codes may be sent to the healthcare practitioner at the end of the day for his/her review and approval (i.e., a batch feedback mode as opposed to a real time feedback mode).
[0136]
The standardized billing code output generated by the ontology processing block, as well as the corrected data file stored in a data base associated with the ontology processing block may thereafter be linked to various files (external or internal to the system). For example, laboratory results from laboratory tests order in the patient evaluation may be linked and correlated with the corrected data file stored in the system. Similarly, a patient scheduling application determining a follow-up visit or a pharmacy ordering application placing a prescription request may be automatically implicated as a result of the corrected data file's contents, and/or an ontology processing block response to the corrected data file.
[0137]
The foregoing embodiments describing various aspects of the invention may further include various optional yet related features. For example, the system might allow a user to interrupt (halt and save) a patient evaluation before its completion, and thereafter allow the user to return to the point at which the evaluation was interrupted—without the loss of previously entered patient data.
[0138]
In another aspect, the system is adapted to provide a complete audit trail of the entire patient evaluation or encounter. Audit information may include all data entries, work orders, and tasks performed for each healthcare practitioner by name, date, and/or system identification. Where multiple healthcare practitioners make data entries to a common patient record during an encounter, each entry is marked or associated with the entering practitioner. In certain circumstances, changes or additions to a patient record may require an accompanying explanation to satisfy the system's auditing mechanism.
[0139]
While several embodiments described above emphasize the possibility of hands-free operation, it should be noted that voice-only data entry will not be the only desirable input alternative. The capability to input data using traditional data inputs techniques (e.g., mouse, keyboard, or stylus activated menu options) can also be used to accommodate different practitioner styles and/or patient sensitivities.
[0140]
Various system user feedback options have been described above, whereby a user is given to understand that some essential criteria of the patient record has been omitted or entered in error. Such user alerts may be visual and/or audible. However, audible alerts should be capable of being turned off to appropriately match the working environment.
[0141]
In another aspect of the invention, completed and “signed” patient records are saved within the system in a non-modifiable format, using such techniques as read-only access, encrypted master copies, etc. Subsequent access to such records will allow only the addition of comments or linking to another patient record.
[0142]
In yet another aspect, the billing codes (e.g., Evaluation and Management “E&M” codes from the CPT standard) are preferably subject to mandatory review by an authorizing healthcare practitioner prior to completion and signing of a patient record. Further, changes to billing codes provided by the ontology processing block are noted as exceptions and preferably feedback to the ontology processing block as system learning information to be considered during ontology quality control and/or maintenance procedures.
[0143]
In yet another aspect of the invention, multiple externally provided records may be appended or linked with a patient record, including images and schemas.
[0144]
In the foregoing examples, the term “record” is used to describe the documentary results of a patient examination. This term is intended to be very broad and it encompasses much more than the subject matter of the traditional (hand-written) patient record. Any patient report or file might be considered a record for purposes of this description.
[0145]
Indeed, the healthcare application variously described above as a teaching example is just that—an example. The invention is subject to much broader use and application. Several alternate applications have already been suggested above.
[0146]
Additionally, however, the invention finds ready application in systems implementing Americans with Disability Act (ADA) section 508 accessibility options. Handicapped persons are better able to navigate complex system or software applications using embodiments of the invention. The combination of non-standard input data correction and ontology based knowledge access offers superior performance over conventional ADA accessibility methods.
[0147]
Customer self-service centers would also benefit from embodiments of the invention. Customers would be able to more efficiently interact with service center applications without intervention by customer service personnel.
[0148]
Site inspections have been identified above. Inspectors, engineers, social workers, and other professionals are enabled by embodiments of the invention to document details of an inspection or site visit in real time and in a manner consistent with governing regulatory bodies while at the same time keeping their hands free for work. Insurance claims adjusters, first responders like police, criminal investigators, firemen, and medical examiners would similarly benefit from the invention.
[0149]
Aircraft and shipping inspectors would also be able to generate detailed, real time inspection reports in a manner required by government regulatory authorities while keeping their hands free to conduct physical examination of the plane or ship.
[0150]
Researchers, be they legal, scientific, or academic would be able to use their hands to manipulate books, files, or physical investigative materials while at the same time generating a standardized output susceptible to further search, indexing, or input into an expert system.
[0151]
Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that many modifications and adaptations may be made to the foregoing embodiments, and that the principles taught in relation to the invention may bee applied to different fields of endeavor. In sum, the embodiments are examples. The scope of the invention is defined by the attached claims.
Claims (30)
Hide Dependent 
1. A system, comprising:
a syntax processing block to receive non-standard input data and generate a corrected data file; and,
an ontology processing block to receive the corrected data file and generate a standardized output in response to the corrected data file.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the non-standard input data comprises voice data, and the syntax processing block comprises a speech recognition application.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the non-standard input data comprises handwriting, and the syntax processing block comprises a handwriting recognition application.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the non-standard input data comprises text data, and the syntax processing block comprises a forms recognition application.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the non-standard input data comprises image data, and the syntax processing block comprises an image recognition application.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the non-standard input data comprises an electronic file, and the syntax processing block comprises a file parsing application.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the non-standard input data comprises at least one of voice, handwriting, text, image data, and an electronic file, and wherein the syntax processing block comprises at least one of a voice recognition application, a forms recognition application, an image recognition application, and a file parsing application.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the syntax processing block comprises a capture block wirelessly connected to a staging block.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the capture block comprises a wireless microphone generating a voice transcript signal, and wherein the staging block comprises a digital logic platform receiving the voice transcript signal and generating the corrected data file in response to the voice transcript signal.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the digital logic platform comprises; a Personal Computer (PC), a tablet PC, a laptop PC, a Personal Digital Assistant (PDA), or other transportable computing hardware.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein the digital logic platform comprises computational logic and memory adapted to run:
a capture application enabling receipt of the voice transcript signal and generation of a voice data file from the voice transcript signal;
a syntax application generating the corrected data file from the voice data file; and,
an interface application enabling a data communication link between the syntax processing block and the ontology processing block.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the data communication link between the syntax processing block and the ontology processing block comprises a Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN), a Wireless Metropolitan Area Network (WMAN), an ad-hoc wireless network, a hardwired Local Area Network (LAN), or an Ethernet connected network.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the syntax application comprises a subroutine correcting components in the voice data file.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein the syntax application comprises a subroutine correcting the voice data file in accordance with a criteria.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein the syntax application comprises one subroutine correcting components in the voice data file and another subroutine correcting the voice data file in accordance with a criteria.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the digital logic platform comprises a user feedback mechanism responsive to the syntax application.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the user feedback mechanism comprises a display visually displaying grouped data elements with or without audible responses.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the ontology processing block comprises a database or other persistent data storage mechanism adapted to store the corrected data file received from the syntax processing block, and a server.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the server comprises computational logic and memory adapted to run an ontology application adapted to reference an ontology in relation to the corrected data file and generate the standardized output.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the computational logic and memory are adapted to run an interface application enabling access to the standardized output by an external system.
21. The system of claim 20, wherein the ontology application is adapted to selectively reference one of a plurality of ontologies and generate multiple standardized outputs.
22. A system, comprising:
a syntax processing block comprising:
a wireless microphone system which receives non-standard voice input data from a user and generates a voice transcript signal in response to the non-standard voice input data;
a digital logic platform which wirelessly receives the voice transcript signal and generates a corrected data file; and,
an ontology processing block which receives the corrected data file from the syntax processing block via a data communication link and generates a standardized output in response to the corrected data file.
23. The system of claim 22, wherein the digital logic platform comprises memory and computational logic adapted to run a syntax application generating the corrected data file from the voice data file.
24. The system of claim 23, wherein the syntax application comprises a criteria-correction subroutine correcting the voice data file in accordance with a criteria defining content for the corrected data file.
25. The system of claim 24, wherein the criteria-correction subroutine implementing a voice activated, control grammar application controlling the receipt of voice input data and providing feedback to the user in relation to the voice data input.
26. The system of 25, wherein the syntax application further comprises a component-correction subroutine correcting components of the voice data file in relation to a lexicon of domain-specific components.
27. The system of claim 26, wherein the ontology processing block comprises a database storing the corrected data file and a server adapted to run an ontology application referencing an ontology in relation to the corrected data file and generating the standardized output in a form accessible to an external system.
28. A system allowing hands-free entry of non-standard input data and generation of a corresponding standardized output, comprising:
an ontology application running on a sever and referenced by a corrected data file stored in database associated with the server;
wherein the corrected data file being formed in a digital logic platform connected to the sever relation to the non-standard input data.
29. The system of claim 28, wherein the non-standard input data is component corrected in the digital logic platform.
30. The system of claim 28, wherein the non-standard input data is corrected in the digital logic platform in relation to a criteria.

US20020087346A1：

Description
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
[0001]
This application claims the benefit of Provisional Application No. 60/253,394, filed Nov. 28, 2000.
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0002]
The present invention relates to learning networks and, more particularly, to the utilization of competencies as “content” for a learning network, the competencies being assimilated by indexing utilities into the learning network.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0003]
The reinvention of the learning landscape over the past decade has significantly tested the ability of training organizations to become more efficient and accountable for their “return on investment”. This fundamental change in the work environment has been the product of investors wanting larger monetary return for less investment of capital. The resulting “pay for performance” ideology has placed a premium on acquiring a diverse set of competencies, while de-emphasizing company loyalty and job security. The real challenge facing training organizations, therefore, is not “return on investment”, but rather training employees on an ever-increasing set of competencies in progressively more complex environments where employees are not as loyal as in the past. Where once training focused on relatively straightforward procedures, employees are now empowered to make decisions, solve problems, and adapt to situations across all levels within an organization.
[0004]
Compounding the issue of training organization efficiency is that as the complexity of jobs has increased, so has the amount of information necessary to understand the relevant competencies. Historically, training organizations have been concerned with structured content that is controlled using widely accepted instructional systems design methodologies. In other words, learning was structured around clear objectives related to content deemed appropriate to a given job function. The rapid rate of change in the core competencies of most jobs today, however, has limited the ability of training organizations with limited resources and budgets to react quickly enough to meet the learning needs of its employees. Consequently, employees have begun to turn to both the internet and corporate intranets as repositories of learning information (e.g., “Lessons Learned” websites, knowledge portals, and the like).
[0005]
Although many learning leaders may suggest that the content on these sites is inappropriate for training since it is unstructured and uncontrolled, their place in the learning landscape cannot be ignored. Indeed, the International Data Corporation (IDC) has predicted that the daily content on corporate intranets will rise from just over 200 terabytes of information per day to almost 1200 terabytes by the year 2006. Undeniably, a significant percentage of this unstructured information is business critical knowledge that, if harnessed, would provide a powerful source of learning to employees.
[0006]
Current leaning theories offer few, if any, suggestions for tapping into such a rich resource of uncontrolled content while simultaneously providing controlled objective-based training. Most learning theories are still based on traditional behaviorism principles limiting the ability to map the complex cognitive processes necessary to utilize the various modes of information. Due to the cognitive complexity of competencies in current and future job functions, a cognitive architecture that is not limited by behaviorism principles would provide a more robust foundation for training.
[0007]
Two cognitive models of learning are recognized in the prior art: the serial processing model and the parallel processing model. The serial processing model is widely recognized as a result of the work of Jean Piaget on the capacity of short-term memory. Short-term memory, according to Piaget, is defined in the model as being limited to an aggregate of seven items, while long-term memory has a limitless capacity. Items in short-term memory are represented symbolically and processed serially in discrete steps. The items then transfer from short-term memory to specific locations in long-term memory with retrieval cues through repetition and limited association. Without repetition, the information in short-term memory quickly degrades.
[0008]
The serial processing cognitive architecture is ideal for more simple associations as found in the stimulus-response behaviorism learning theories. With a limited capacity of short-term memory and an inability to process multiple pieces of information simultaneously, short-term memory in this architecture creates a “bottleneck” in the learning process. Employees, faced with more complex competency tasks, struggle to manage the encoding of information in an environment in which significant amounts of knowledge are presented simultaneously in a short period. Since items are represented symbolically in discrete locations within long-term memory, recall errors are common, due to poor encoding strategies, which will reduce motivation to apply learned knowledge and skills. This interpretation is strengthened by the work of Ebbinghaus' “forgetting theory”, published around the turn of the twentieth century, in which upwards of 40% of content (using nonsense syllables instead of semantically meaningful content) learned was lost within the first 20 minutes of being learned. Ebbinghaus found that interventions such as rereading of materials after the initial learning event significantly reduced content loss. In the current cognitive model, it could be argued that by reviewing the material, employees are providing an opportunity for short-term memory to process the information with strong encoding cues in long-term memory.
[0009]
Another limitation of the serial processing cognitive architecture is that the learned material is discretely placed within long-term memory without significant association to other items. For instance, an instructor may provide information based on personal work experiences that the learner (employee) does not understand due to a lack of similar experience. Consequently, the employee may encode the information in a manner inconsistent with the instructor's inventions. The result is that the employee, when faced with the instructor's example, may not be able to recall the pertinent information, due to encoding cues that were inconsistent with the intentions of the learning environment created by the instructor. Since the learned information is stored in a discrete location in long-term memory with limited associations to other material, individuals ,ay have difficulty applying this information into another work setting due to a lack of flexible retrieval cues.
[0010]
The alternative parallel processing cognitive architecture model is based on neural networking's premise of excitatory properties of the neuron. In this model, learning is conceptualized as a network of linked concepts, defined as nodes, in which information is recalled via the activation of correlated nodes across the network. For instance, as shown in FIG. 1, the concept of “fire” is represented in a network with all of its associated information linked in the system. The more relevant the information to the individual's understanding of fire, the closer the two items reside in the network.
[0011]
As an individual acquires more experience in an environment, the relationships between nodes strengthen, resulting in aggregation of information commonly defined as a “chunk”, as shown in FIG. 2. As additional experience is obtained, these “chunks” are further interconnected to form more robust representations of human behavior, memory, and information processing, defined as “schemas”. Referring again to FIG. 2, the progression from nodes, to chunks and then to schemas creates a “learning network” comprising an endless combination of interconnected information that may be capable of representing competencies at all levels of complexity.
[0012]
Although the parallel processing architecture is not restricted by limitations in the short-term memory, the acquisition of competencies is shown to be gradual. Knowledge existing in this type of system is considered implicit and outside the awareness of the individual, but is accessible when the entire node pattern is activated. As shown in FIG. 3, however, the example of the instructor's information being interpreted and encoded differently by two individuals does not result in the absolute loss of information. As shown, an “abstract” thinker and a “concrete” thinker encode the concept of “fire” quiet differently. The encoding of fire's relationship to “water” in both learning networks, however, results in the entire node pattern being activated and thus recalled. The implication for training is that regardless of the ability of the individual to encode information as intended by the instructor, it is likely that enough similarity between the intended pattern and the actual pattern of encoding will result in recall on demand of the learned information. This ability in the architecture to create unique, personal learning networks accounts for individual differences in learning styles, as well as cognitive abilities to store and access information.
[0013]
Although the parallel processing model provides a theoretical foundation rich in explanations for the learning of competencies, the fact remains that learners must encode the information in the architecture. Unfortunately, not all employees encode equally. Specifically, novice learners tend to focus on serial processing, resulting in memory limitations and poor recollection of stored information. Experts, on the other hand, create encoding synergy by incorporation multiple types of information into their learning networks. By managing their memory systems, experts are also able to leverage their current encoding and retrieval strategies in long-term memory to assimilate new information. This self-monitoring skill lows experts to examine and judge the effectiveness of their problem-solving strategies. Research has demonstrated that experts tend to constantly self-regulate their progress on resolving a problem, while novices will continue down a path for significant periods of time without considering its effectiveness at reaching resolution. Researchers have suggested that these metacognitive differences may exist because experts have more schemas to reference, which eases the need to working (short-term) memory to process new information. Consequently, experts are able to use their working memory to monitor, rather than process, the integration of new information and strategies into the existing structure because the new schema overlays with existing schemas in their learning network with more logic than that in possession of a novice. In other words, experts are able to maximize the incorporation of new data because they can relate new competency information to their existing knowledge and skill in memory. This ability by experts allows them to maximize the strengths of both the serial and parallel processing architectures.
[0014]
The differences between expert and novice learners provide evidence that one of the most critical competencies for an employee is associated with learning. Unfortunately, as the competencies associated with jobs become more complicated and the time for training decreases due to the “needs of the business”, the opportunity for individuals to evaluate training resources decreases. For novice learners, this may be a moot point since they lack the skills and knowledge to be able to navigate all of the available learning resources. On the other hand, expert learns are likely to be overwhelmed by the amount of information available in both controlled and uncontrolled environments. In both situations, neither type of employee fully realizes his or her learning potential, due to an inability to create a complete “learning network” (as illustrated in FIG. 1).
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0015]
In light of all of these limitations of the prior art, the present invention is directed to the capability of creating a custom “learning network” for each indvidual (be it for an expert, novice, or an individual with a few years experience). Each learning network is configured to dynamically account for all information, both controlled and uncontrolled, that is considered by the business “owners/executives” to be important for the task of acquiring job-specific competencies and overall organization success. The system, in accordance with the present invention, is capable of mimicking the parallel processing model of the prior art, meaning that all content (regardless of source) is treated equally so that node patterns (i.e., relationships between the nodes) may be developed.
[0016]
The node patterns, chunks and schemas are designed, in accordance with the present invention, to provide individuals with mapped learning solutions to specific competency deficits. For the purposes of the present invention, the term “competency” is defined as an underlying characteristic of an individual that relates to job performance.
[0017]
The assimilation of competencies into a learning network as the principal driver of training represents a significant evolution in the learning model. Instead of integrating competencies as word strings in a search engine, competencies are treated as “content” and assimilated by the indexing utilities into the learning network. This process requires limited integration of existing systems into a learning architecture and reduces the need for meta-tagging and definitive guidelines for chunking of information, since the index automatically acquires the related information.
[0018]
Other and further aspects of the present invention will become apparent during the course of the following discussion and by reference to the accompanying drawings.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0019]
Referring now to the drawings:
[0020]
FIG. 1 illustrates an exemplary, simplified “learning network”, this particular network involving the concept of “fire”, and illustrating the various associated nodes;
[0021]
FIG. 2 illustrates the evolution from a “node”, to a “chunk”, to a “schema” in the creation of a learning network;
[0022]
FIG. 3 compares learning networks (again involving the concept of “fire”), for both an abstract learner and a concrete learner;
[0023]
FIG. 4 contains a diagram illustrating the operation of a learning network for a plurality of different users;
[0024]
FIG. 5 illustrates an exemplary graphical user interface (GUI) for interacting with a learning network formed in accordance with the present invention; and
[0025]
FIG. 6 illustrates an exemplary learning network of the present invention, comprising as nodes knowledge objects, learning objects and competencies.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0026]
Prior art systems utilized to implement a learning network have related competencies to learning content by either programming the relationship in software, or have used a search engine to identify the content via word strings. The shortcomings of programming the relationships center on the cost of creating the links, as well as an inability of the system to dynamically modify itself based on user needs. Using search engines to retrieve content is limited because the system identifies relevant documents based on key words, rather than on the actual concept presented in the document. In addition, neither system has the intelligence to learn from or adapt to the user's behavior. In other words, a learning architecture must be capable of incorporating new information, adapting existing relationships of content, and focusing on the interests of the user.
[0027]
In recent years, the modeling of neural networks in software has reached a level of development that provides an opportunity to create individual learning networks. Specifically, algorithms are now available and capable of analyzing content and understanding meaning through the frequency and relationship of words. These correlations are formed independent of the content's language, grammar, sentence structure, and slang. The learning networks are created using “spiders” (i.e., loosely termed fetch utilities) that index the relationships between available content in most common and widely used file formats. Conceptually, this indexing, when queried, creates interconnects in the content that result in multilevel associations that mimic the node patterns, chunks, and schemas of the prior art parallel processing architecture. Further, the algorithms profile a user's interests based on actual queries and thus continually improve the meaning of the relationships in the user's learning network.
[0028]
As mentioned above, these node patterns, chunks, and schemas are designed to provide individuals with mapped learning solutions to specific competency deficits. The structure of competencies often contains a mixture of knowledge, skills, abilities, motivation, beliefs, values, and interests. Competencies effectively translate the organizational mission, vision, and values into concrete behaviors and actions that individuals can understand and perform. Consequently, these behaviors and actions are utilized as “business drivers” for all human resource functions, including training.
[0029]
Indeed, the assimilation of competencies into a learning network as the principle driver of training represents a significant evolution in the learning model. Instead of integrating competencies as word strings in a search engine, the competencies are treated as content and assimilated by the indexing utilities into a learning network. The process requires limited integration of existing systems into a learning architecture and also reduces the need for meta-tagging and definitive guidelines for chunking of information, since the index automatically acquires the related information.
[0030]
As with any content introduced into a learning network, the relationships are automatically established between competencies and content, as well as among the content and competencies themselves. In the conventional parallel processing architecture, the node patterns that exist in the system may be accessed at multiple points. In keeping with the philosophy that competencies drive the business, a learning network formed in accordance with the present invention is accessed at the competency level associated with the particular individual doing the accessing. When competency nodes are opened, all related learning solution materials (both controlled and uncontrolled) are provided, subject to particular access rules that may be set forth by the organization's administrators.
[0031]
The ability to customize each learning network in accordance with the present invention is intended to offer search results to a specific individual that are shaped by prior navigation, as well as gap analysis from a “competency road map”. The searching function uses preferences established by the particular functional organization (as the portal can provide different views for employees that access the hub from different functional organizations), as well as by personal settings that are made by the individual. The portal also promotes “communities of practice” by providing a forum for individuals to interact with instructors, application experts, and their peers on an ongoing basis (which functions to break the paradigm of event-centered learning).
[0032]
The functionality described above may be accomplished using any neuralnetworking knowledge-management software application. In accordance with the present invention, four primary components are required to reside in the software: a concept engine, a data retrieval utility, a categorization tool, and a concept query capability. The concept engine serves as the core of the learning network and is capable of hosting a complete database of data acquired from multiple sources of information, in all commonly accepted file formats (including “zipped” material) throughout both the Internet and a company's intranet. Unlike other information databases, however, the concept engine applies algorithm(s) based in Bayesian statistical probability theory that statistically determine the meaning of content and stores an abstract of the content's concept with a hyperlink to the original source in its database.
[0033]
The content residing in the concept engine is assembled using data retrieval utilities. These utilities are directed to retrieve content from both controlled and uncontrolled sources, including databases (e.g., Oracle Fetch and ODBC Fetch), web sites (Spiders), emails (MS Exchange Fetch), as well as a host of other content sources. The utilizes are capable of acquiring content on a scheduled basis and dynamically incorporating its meaning into the database.
[0034]
Once established in the database of the concept engine, the content is queried using agents. The agent, using similar algorithms, is optimized through training on sample content to query the concept engine for related materials. The agent, once executed, is processed by the concept engine, yielding an index of materials correlated to the original query, regardless of the content's language, grammar, sentence structure, or use of slang. In other words, the agent's query is processed for meaning by the concept engine and compared to the abstracts of the content concepts in the indexed database. Once processed, the concept engine creates a relationship table of similar content based on the original query's meaning. The relationship table provides the user with a listing of hyperlinks produced by the original query.
[0035]
The relationships created as a result of the initial query agent are intertwined into a multilevel set of associations that dynamically adapt to the content preferences of the user. Since the concept engine dynamically processes the original query, any further selections within the relationship table yield a new relationship table of hyperlinks. Furthermore, the algorithms provide a particular user's interests based on actual behavior and continually improve the meaning of the relationships found in the relationship table. In other words, as the first query is applied, the concept engine creates a list of related content. Once a hyperlink is selected, that material is presented with a new relationship table that is dynamically generated and specific to the new cont4ent. This process of dynamically created relationship tables is endless and demonstrates the ability of the software to personalize content delivery based on user preferences and past behavior. This process is capable of occurring on a much grander scale as multiple query agents searching on multiple subjects continually monitor the changing content being updated at scheduled intervals in the concept engine. The result of this approach is a set of relationship tables that represent a more “holistic” view of the user's ever-changing content environment.
[0036]
The combination of the concept engine, data retrieval utilities, and agent query presents an example of an application capable of distributing customized content to users, based on individual preferences and past behavior. For the purposes of the present invention, however, another level of administrative direction is desired for a successful implementation of a dynamic, individualized learning network. In particular, as users choose hyperlinks associated with their personal concept agent, they risk a complete disassociation with the agent's original programming. For example, if a user is searching for training on “win-win negotiation”, the agent may provide a hyperlink to a document entitled “Win-Win Negotiation at Exxon”. Upon selection of that hyperlink, the new relationship table may include multiple hyperlinks to non-training materials, including content on the Exxon Valdez incident in Alaska. Without proper control, therefore, a user may be directed away from the content deemed important by the training organization.
[0037]
One solution to this problem would be to restrict the content fed into the concept engine by the data retrieval utilizes. However, the cost of removing potential non-traditional learning opportunities (e.g., news stories, “lessons learned”, best practices and community groups) is considered to far outweigh the security that the restrictions provide. In contrast to limiting the types of content incorporated into the concept engine, an additional filter may be implemented, in accordance with the present invention, to limit the material accessible to a query agent in response to a specific request. More particularly, a category may be established that would be a subset of the concept engine's material focused on a particular concept. For instance, a “negotiation” category would limit the available hyperlinks when “win-win negotiations” were sought from the concept engine to only those other hyperlinks involving negotiation as a “concept” (thus not allowing the Valdez article to be selected). This administrative restriction thus provides the system with the ability to provide truly diverse content, while enabling control (when necessary) over content availability.
[0038]
As presented, this application provides a robust system for the integration and delivery of diverse content in a personalized and continuously dynamic manner. An exemplary system 10 of the present invention, as illustrated in FIG. 4, is shown to integrate the concept of content acquired via a set of data retrieval utilities 12 into a concept engine database 14. Competencies 16-1, 16-2, 16-3, . . . , 16-N are then established to create subsets of content focused on specific competencies. A query agent 18 then queries a particular competency 16-i and, over time, query agent 18 for a specific user 20 becomes personalized for user 20 on a given competency. A neural-networking based software approach may be used with the dynamic learning network structure 10 of the present invention, since the inventive learning network can be thought of as a learning system based on a parallel processing architecture that enables people to encode and apply knowledge and skill to their jobs beyond the situation in which learned. Using specific software components, a parallel processing architecture can be established, where in particular the sources of content available to learners are established by the business through its training organization (and are considered to be infinitely customizable by groups of individuals).
[0039]
Referring to FIG. 4, four difference sources of content are identified: learning solutions 30, controlled content 32, uncontrolled content 34, and a competency roadmap 36. Once the sources of content are identified, data retrieval utilities 12 are released to “scour” the associated content providers' network(s) (e.g., Internet, corporate intranet, etc.) for learning objects and knowledge objects to be incorporated into the learning network. In most cases, output files from content providers are not necessary, due to the ability of data retrieval utilities 12 to retrieve information from the content sources into concept engine 14. Once the content is retrieved, the concept engine statistically determines the meaning of the objects and stores the concept abstracts with a hyperlink in its database.
[0040]
After the content in concept engine 14 is established, data retrieval utilities 12 are programmed to continually scour the content sources 30, 32, 34 and 36 for new material, where any new material found is then dynamically incorporated by meaning into the database of concept engine 14. With the database of concept abstracts so created, categories may be implemented to create a sub-group for each competency 16 in every organization's competency roadmap 36. A competency's category identifies appropriate content by processing example content provided by the administrators of the system. The categories, once trained, identify and capture suitable content from the concept engine. Each category, therefore, represents both the learning objects and knowledge objects available for a given competency.
[0041]
FIG. 5 illustrates an exemplary graphical user interface (GUI) 50 that may be used by an individual to gain entrance to an exemplary learning network of the present invention. As shown area 52 in the user interface 50 represents a series of possible competencies 16 in a competency roadmap 36. Each competency presented in area 52 on the interface 50 represents a trained category in concept engine 14. The categories contain specific content from the learning solutions 30, competency road map 36, controlled content sources 32 and uncontrolled content sources 34, pertaining to this competency.
[0042]
After creating competency categories to provide administrative control over the types of content available to a user, the next step in the creation of the inventive learning network is the training of query agents on the types of content desired within each competency category. Although similar in purpose, the category is a subset of the concept engine based on a predefined concept. In contrast, the agents are structured database queries of the category to meet the specific learning needs of a user. The agents are trained by presenting to the agent an example of content that the learner is interested in locating within the concept engine's database.
[0043]
Once the example is provided, the agent presents itself as a query statement to the concept engine for processing. The concept engine creates a concept abstract of the exemplary material and uses pattern matching and concept matching techniques to identify related materials in its database, which are then presented to the user in a relationship table. As mentioned above, multiple query agents may be programmed to search on multiple subjects, allowing for the continuous monitoring and presentation of relevant content to the user. Another method of applying the agents is to train multiple agents that retrieve different types of information from the same category. For instance, as shown in FIG. 5, windows 60, 62 and 64 display content that is dynamically retrieved from three separate agents 18-1, 18-2 and 18-3, being processed by concept engine 14 within the same category 16. More specifically, agent 18-1 associated with window 60 (“Courses”) is programmed to retrieve information from, for example, the Saba Learning Solutions database. Agent 18-2, associated with window 62 (“Articles and Other Information”) is programmed to retrieve relevant books from multiple magazine, journal and library resources, while window 64 associated with agent 18-3 is programmed to retrieve relevant information from a website.
[0044]
The theoretical foundation of the inventive learning network, as described above, focuses on the ability of the learning system to automatically establish relationships across a catalog of data. The data, according to the theory, evolves from information schemas whose roots are based in chunks of content and nodes. The schemas are then processed in a parallel manner to create a network of knowledge.
[0045]
To this point, the concept of a network of interrelated content has been limited to the original output yielded by an agent's initial training. In other words, the concept engine processes the query statement of the agent and a return of interrelated material to the original query is provided. This, in and of itself, represents a learning network, since an infinite set of data resides in the concept engine (i.e., long-term memory) and is accessed at one point by a query agent (i.e., node), yielding a list of interrelated learning objects and knowledge objects representing the learning network. For example, FIG. 6 represents the relationship table (each node representing a hyperlink) in which the dark shaded nodes represent knowledge objects, the medium shaded nodes represent learning objects, and the light shaded nodes represent competencies. The agent's query statement represents the access of one node within a category in the concept engine that results in the stimulation of related nodes, equivalent to the activation of a schema in a learning network.
[0046]
Although the content returned from the query is based on the “meaning” of the information, rather than on a simple word search, the material returned for a given agent is consistent for all individuals who use the query to access the concept engine. This representation of the query agent as a catalyst for the activation of a learning network does not fully represent the capability of the system. The true value of the system, as applied to a learning network, is that the relationship table changes as the user selects a hyperlink to access information related to the original search. The new relationship table is equivalent to a new activation pattern of nodes, or schema, in a learning network. This ability to customize a learning network to the user, based on preferences and past behavior, enables both novice and expert learners to maximize the benefits of the inventive system.
[0047]
In particular, the learning network of the present invention provides novice learners with an expert system (or virtual coach) that aids in the encoding and organization of learning materials. This is important because novice learners tend to have difficulty understanding the relationship of new information to already-stored information. On the other hand, expert learners benefit from the organization of materials in the network, related to a more efficient utilization of time. The virtual coach is able to recommend learning solutions that others within the organization with a similar competency road map have been found effective. This provides experts with the ability to create encoding synergy by incorporating multiple types of information into various learning networks, resulting in a richer personal learning experience as related to the ability to manage more content in less time. The scalability of the inventive learning network to manage current data while constantly incorporating new data by meaning provides a learning solution capable of increasing the intellectual capital of a business, as a result of the flexibility of the system to meet the individual needs of each user.
[0048]
In summary, the present invention is directed to a system based on a parallel processing architecture that enables an individual to encode and apply knowledge and skill to his job beyond the situation in which it is learned. The dynamic learning network of the present invention provides an expert system (i.e., virtual coach) to novice learners that aids in encoding and organizing learning materials. Similarly, expert learners benefit from the organization of materials in the network, resulting in a more efficient use of time. The virtual coach is also able to recommend learning solutions that others within the organization, with a similar competency roadmap, have found effective. The system of the present invention thus provides a competency-based learning system that leverages its identified knowledge, skills, abilities, motivation, beliefs, values and interests of the organization to drive the development of training programs in a continuous improvement cycle. The evaluation of the learning system may also be competency driven, and is therefore capable of identifying learning trends, improving the competency roadmap function, and maintaining overall learning system quality, resulting in the production of more robust learning solutions. The architecture is based on competencies shaping training, assessments improving the training, and training reshaping the competencies. Ultimately, the ability of the architecture to adapt leads to a more competent workforce capable of exceeding the needs of the organization.
Claims (7)
Hide Dependent 
What is claimed is:
1. A learning network arrangement comprising
a plurality of interconnected nodes representing subject matter elements for said learning network, the plurality of interconnected nodes including a first set of nodes associated with knowledge objects, a second set of nodes associated with learning objects, and a third set of nodes associated with competencies, wherein the first, second and third sets of nodes are linked in a pattern unique for each user of said learning network, where a plurality of nodes are linked to form a chunk, a plurality of chunks are linked to form a schema, and a plurality of schemas are linked to form the learning network; and
at least one query agent for accessing a competency node associated with a query submitted by a user, the competency node being linked to associated competency, knowledge and learning nodes.
2. A learning network as defined in claim 1 wherein the network is dynamic such that new links are created each time a user submits a query to said at least one query agent.
3. A learning network as defined in claim 1 wherein the network further comprises subject matter filters to minimize spurious return of information on a query.
4. A learning network as defined in claim 1 wherein the network comprises
a concept engine including a database for storing concept information and the linkage between the plurality of nodes in the network; and
a plurality of data retrieval utilities, associated with the concept engine, for accessing external information sources and creating knowledge and learning nodes in the learning network.
5. A learning network as defined in claim 4 wherein the plurality of data retrieval utilities are configured to continuously access the external information sources and create new knowledge and learning nodes.
6. A learning network as defined in claim 4 wherein the external sources comprise both controlled and uncontrolled sources of information.
7. A learning network as defined in claim 6 wherein the external sources further comprise learning solutions and a competency roadmap.

US20200176098A1：

Description
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]
This application claims the benefit of priority to U.S. provisional application 62/774,854, filed Dec. 3, 2018, the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
BACKGROUND OF THE DISCLOSURE
1. Field of the Invention
[0002]
The field of the disclosure is a system and method that incorporates machine learning to identify, extract, and predict clinical concepts from electronic health and medical records.
2. Description of the Related Art
[0003]
Conventional electronic health record (EHR) and electronic medical record (EMR) systems lack the ability to capture and store critical components of a patient's history, demographics, diagnosis, treatments, outcomes, genetic markers, etc., because they focus on billing operations and compliance with regulatory requirements that mandate collection of a certain subset of attributes. This problem may be exacerbated by the fact that parts of a patient's record which may include rich and meaningful data (e.g., diagnoses and treatments captured in progress or follow-up notes, flow sheets, pathology reports, radiology reports, etc.) remain isolated, unstructured, and inaccessible within the patient's record as uncatalogued, unstructured documents stored in accompanying systems. Conventional methods for identifying and structuring this data are reliant on human analysts reviewing documents and entering the data into a record system manually. A majority of the conventional systems in use lack the ability to mine and/or uncover this information, leading to gaps in data accessibility and inhibiting a physician's ability to provide optimal care (i.e., precision medicine).
[0004]
Conventional systems for identifying and structuring data are lacking in quality and robustness for preprocessing or extracting meaningful records from multiple sources of health or medical record data. For example, physicians and clinical staff may record handwritten notes in shorthand in the margins of a document which is then scanned into an EHR or EMR system. Such entries to the EHR or EMR are difficult to account for without an intervening analyst to interpret the record. Furthermore, locating relevant data throughout a document relies on isolating and identifying information that provides context for a specific field, but may require specialized knowledge of the subject matter to interpret correctly, extract, and encode in the EHR or EMR in a structured format.
[0005]
What are needed are systems and methods that address one or more of these shortcomings.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0006]
In one aspect, the system provides mechanisms for automatically processing clinical documents in bulk, identifying and extracting key characteristics, and generating machine learning models that are refined and optimized through the use of continuous training data.
[0007]
In another aspect, a method includes the steps of determining a first concept from a text of a medical record from an electronic health record system, the first concept relating to a patient, identifying a match to the first concept in a first list of concepts, wherein the first list of concepts is not a predetermined authority, referencing the first concept with an entity in a database of related concepts, identifying a match to a second concept in a second list of concepts, the second list of concepts not directly linked to the first list of concepts except by a relationship to the entity, wherein the second list of concepts is the predetermined authority, and providing the second concept as an identifier of the patient's medical record.
[0008]
In still another aspect, a method includes the step of applying a medical ontology to an electronic health record to extract at least one structured field value for the health record.
[0009]
In yet another aspect, a method for determining whether a patient may be enrolled into a clinical trial includes the steps of examining the patient's medical record from an electronic health record system, deriving a plurality of first concepts from the medical record, normalizing each concept in the plurality of first concepts to produce, for each normalization, a normalized concept, comparing each normalized concept to a list of study criteria, to indicate if the normalized concept meets the criteria, and if each criteria is met, indicating that the patient is not ineligible for enrollment in the clinical trial.
[0010]
In a further aspect, a method for developing synthetic control arms for clinical trials includes the steps of examining a patient's medical record from an electronic health record system, deriving a plurality of first concepts from the medical record, normalizing each concept in the plurality of first concepts to produce, for each normalization, a normalized concept, comparing each normalized concept to a list of study criteria, to indicate if the normalized concept meets the criteria, and if each criteria is met, indicating that the patient is part of an experimental group for the clinical trial.
[0011]
In another aspect, a method for institution-wide analysis of data in an electronic health record, comprising, for each of a plurality of patient medical records in an electronic health record system includes the steps of examining the patient medical record, deriving a plurality of first concepts from the medical record, normalizing each concept in the plurality of first concepts to produce, for each normalization, a normalized concept, and analyzing each of the normalized concepts to identify data trends within the institution.
[0012]
In still another aspect, a method for performing quality checks on information contained in a patient medical record in an electronic health record system includes the steps of examining the patient medical record, deriving a plurality of first concepts from the medical record, normalizing each concept in the plurality of first concepts to produce, for each normalization, a normalized concept, comparing a first normalized concept derived from a first section of the medical record with a second normalized concept derived from a second section of the medical record, and evaluating consistency between the first and second normalized concepts.
[0013]
In a further aspect, a method for extracting information from an electronic publication includes the steps of examining the publication, deriving a plurality of first concepts from the publication, normalizing each concept in the plurality of first concepts to produce, for each normalization, a normalized concept, and generating a knowledge database comprising each of the normalized concepts.
[0014]
In yet another aspect, a method for comparing data generated by a first institution and a second institution includes the steps of, for each of a plurality of patient medical records in an electronic health record system of the first institution, examining the patient medical record, deriving a plurality of first concepts from the medical record, and normalizing each concept in the plurality of first concepts to produce, for each normalization, a normalized first concept. The method also includes, for each of a plurality of patient medical records in an electronic health record system of the second institution, examining the patient medical record, deriving a plurality of second concepts from the medical record, and normalizing each concept in the plurality of first concepts to produce, for each normalization, a normalized second concept. Still further, the method includes comparing the normalized first concepts with the normalized second concepts.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0015]
FIG. 1 is an exemplary pipeline for processing electronic records into structured results:
[0016]
FIG. 2 is an exemplary table representing a structured result;
[0017]
FIG. 3 is an exemplary constituency-based parse tree representation according to an embodiment;
[0018]
FIG. 4 is an exemplary word weighing representation according to an embodiment;
[0019]
FIG. 5 is an exemplary sequence labeling classification representation according to an embodiment;
[0020]
FIG. 6 is an exemplary ontological graph database for viewing links between different dictionaries;
[0021]
FIG. 7 is an exemplary tabular extraction report and report specific masks;
[0022]
FIG. 8 is an exemplary architecture for implementing an embodiment of the pipeline of FIG. 1; and
[0023]
FIG. 9 is an exemplary system diagram for implementing the methods disclosed herein.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE DISCLOSURE
[0024]
In one aspect, a system is disclosed that identifies information in clinical documents or other records. The system may use a combination of text extraction techniques, text cleaning techniques, natural language processing techniques, machine learning algorithms, and medical concept (Entity) identification, normalization, and structuring techniques. The system also maintains and utilizes a continuous collection of training data across clinical use cases (e.g., diagnoses, therapies, outcomes, genetic markers, etc.) that help to increase both accuracy and reliability of predictions specific to a patient record. The system accelerates a structuring of clinical data in a patient's record. The system may execute subroutines that highlight, suggest, and pre-populate an electronic medical record (“EHR” or “EMR”). The system may provide other formats of structured clinical data, with relevant medical concepts extracted from the text and documents of record.
[0025]
One embodiment may include an ontology-directed system that specializes in abstracting patient from fields from that particular ontology. Additionally or alternatively, the system may have aspects that are ontology agnostic for performing recognition across multi-discipline medical records.
[0026]
The system may include a persistent, stateless service that receives a plurality of queued messages from one or more peripheral services (e.g., a file conversion service or an optical character recognition service) which may also perform natural language processing (NLP) operations on outputs of those peripheral services. Those NLP operations include machine learning features, as described herein, in order to increase the speed, efficiency, and accuracy of the processing. A persistent, stateless system is a system operating in an asynchronous manner in comparison to a conventional point to point pipeline. For example, the system may be structured in a “pipeline” fashion, but each modular component of the system may retrieve and store exemplary input/output datasets as they become available, without relying on the modular component before or after in the pipeline to initiate or acknowledge availability for a transfer. Such statelessness allows for more advanced parallelization because it reduces inefficiencies at each bottleneck of the pipeline (i.e., handshaking to pass data). More detail on the persistent, stateless service is discussed with reference to FIG. 1 below.
[0027]
The system may include a training service designed to promote user interaction to improve machine learning capabilities. In one aspect, the training service may use a production repository as its input data. In another aspect, the training service may use a data repository separate from the production repository. Additionally, the system may operate in a plurality of manners. In a first manner, the system may be triggered in response to specific queries requesting processing on specific EHR or EMR files. In a second manner, the system may include a backend service that reviews and processes EHR or EMR files continuously (i.e., without a need for specific user queries). The backend service may operate asynchronously from user input, such as queries or commands. In such a manner, the system may detect when a patient record has been received, either partially or in full, and begin processing the patient record in aggregate or as a whole to determine relevant medical concepts for entry into the EMR.
Definitions
[0028]
As used herein, the following terms should be understood to have their plain and ordinary meanings to one of ordinary skill in the relevant art. To wit:
[0029]
“Concept,” in its broadest sense, means a phrase of interest. Concepts, more particularly, may include clinical or medical concepts, which are clinically defined terms within a medical ontology or synonyms or variants thereof.
[0030]
A “list of concepts” means a grouping of two or more concepts.
[0031]
A “predetermined authority” means a vocabulary, terminology, ontology, code set, or other manner of recording or representing data, such as clinical or medical data, that has been established or decided in advance.
[0032]
A “related concept” means a concept shared within a vocabulary, terminology, ontology, code set, or other manner of recording or representing data in fields of clinical or medical data such as a diagnosis, procedure, medication, treatment, or other data.
[0033]
“Directly linked” means having a formal, defined mapping between elements, e.g., a parent-child relationship, an “is a,”, “type of,” “broader than,” or “narrower than” relationship, a synonym relationship, or some other type of predetermined or predefined relationship.
[0034]
A “structured format” means a format that is standardized, normalized, modeled, or otherwise organized to make it searchable using computer-based search engine tools.
[0035]
To “extract a field from a structured format” means to generate a separate data object, the contents of which match or otherwise are derived from a specific, identified portion of the structured data.
[0036]
A “predetermined degree of specificity” means a closeness of match or fit that has been established or decided in advance.
[0037]
“Selection criteria” means those factors or standards by which certain data is evaluated.
[0038]
“Normalizing a concept” means converting a concept from an unstructured format to a structured format or from one structured format to a second, different structured format.
[0039]
In the field of clinical abstraction from EHR and EMR documents, machine learning or deep learning may be combined with NLP techniques to abstract relevant medical concepts. While the detailed implementations of these are disclosed in more detail below, an exemplary abstraction performed on a simple text is now provided to give a general understanding of one aspect of the disclosure. For instance, the simple text “The patient was given Tylenol 50 mg at 10:35 am.” may be analyzed using a machine learning algorithm (MLA) trained on EHR and EMR documents relating to thousands of patients to recognize medications that the patient was prescribed in order to generate the table of FIG. 2.
[0040]
Generating a training set from which to train the MLA involves both enumerating known drugs (which may include thousands or even tens of thousands of drugs) and also maintaining the flexibility to recognize drugs which are not included in the sources of the known drugs. The process of enumerating the known drugs into a list may include identifying clinical drugs prescribed by healthcare providers, pharmaceutical companies, and research institutions. Such providers, companies, and institutions may provide reference lists of their drugs. For example, the US National Library of Medicine (NLM) publishes a Unified Medical Language System (UMLS) including a Metathesaurus having drug vocabularies including CPT®, ICD-10-CM, LOINC®, MeSH®, RxNorm, and SNOMED CT®. Each of these drug vocabularies highlights and enumerates specific collections of relevant drugs. Other institutions such as insurance companies may also publish clinical drug lists providing all drugs covered by their insurance plans. By aggregating the drug listings from each of these providers, companies, and institutions, an enumerated list of clinical drugs that is universal in nature may be generated.
[0041]
A combination of NLP and supervised, semi-supervised, or unsupervised MLA techniques may be used to generate an intelligent training set of data to recognize entries from the enumerated list of clinical drugs, in order to identify patterns within the text of abstracted documents which typically surround drug entries. The identified patterns may then be applied to unknown drugs to generate new entries which are added to the clinical drug list. An exemplary pattern may be a sentence structure containing “patient was given ______” or “patient was prescribed ______.” In these examples, the known drugs are the supervised portion of the semi-supervised algorithm while the new entries determined are the unsupervised portion of the semi-supervised algorithm. In this manner, a non-exhaustive listing of drugs may be leveraged to train a MLA to detect drugs based on sentence structure, associated key terms, or other patterns in the text. Once trained, the unsupervised portion of the semi-supervised algorithm will apply the training to detect unclassified words for addition to the classification list. In this manner, a semi-supervised MLA can apply features of NLP to detect and classify unknown and known drug entries in medical texts. While described herein with respect to the medical concept of a drug, this approach may be applied to all medical concept classifications using the techniques described herein. Specific details of the NLP and MLA techniques are discussed in more detail with respect to FIGS. 3-7, below. Specific details of supervised, semi-supervised, or unsupervised MLA techniques are discussed in more detail below.
[0042]
Medical data may include numerous fields including, but not limited to, patient demographics (e.g., patient name, date of birth, gender, ethnicity, date of death, address, smoking status, diagnosis dates, personal medical history, family medical history, etc.), clinical diagnoses (e.g., date of initial diagnosis, date of metastatic diagnosis, cancer staging, tumor characterization, tissue of origin, etc.), treatments and outcomes (e.g., therapy groups, medications, surgeries, radiotherapy, imaging, adverse effects, associated outcomes, and corresponding dates, etc.), and genetic testing and laboratory information (e.g. genetic testing, performance scores, lab tests, pathology results, prognostic indicators, and corresponding dates, etc.). Each of the fields (e.g., address, cancer staging, medications, genetic testing, etc.) may also have a plurality of subfields. For example, address may have subfields for type of use (e.g., personal, business), street, city, state, zip, country, and a start or end date (i.e., date that residency at the address begins or expires). Genetic testing may have subfields for the date of genetic testing, testing provider used, test method (e.g., genetic sequencing method, gene panel), gene results (e.g., included genes, variants, expressions, etc.), tumor mutational burden, and microsatellite instability. The above provided examples, enumerations, and lists are not intended to limit the scope of the available fields and are intended to convey only the nature and structure that fields within medical data may be represented within a universal EMR. These fields of medical data may also identify concept candidates, discussed in more detail below with respect to FIGS. 3-7. In an exemplary embodiment, categorization of concept candidates may include: Diagnosis, Primary Diagnosis Site, Metastatic Diagnosis Site, Tumor Characterization, Standard Grade, Alternative Grade, Medications, Surgical Procedure, Smoking Status, Comorbidities, Adverse Events, Outcomes, Performance Scores, Radiotherapy Modality, Radiotherapy Units, Imaging Type, Gene Mention, Immunology Markers, TNM Status, and American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) Stage. In one example, Tylenol may be a concept candidate relating to the Medications or Outcomes category as a medication in treatment or a medication in outcomes.
[0043]
With respect to abstraction, a patient data store such as the data repository of FIG. 1 may include one or more feature modules which may comprise a collection of features available for every patient in the system. While feature scope across all patients is informationally dense, a patient's feature set may be sparsely populated across the entirety of the collective feature scope of all features across all patients. For example, the feature scope across all patients may expand into the tens of thousands of features while a patient's unique feature set may only include a subset of hundreds or thousands of the collective feature scope based upon the records available for that patient. After abstraction, these features may be used to generate and model the artificial intelligence classifiers in the system. Therefore, it is important that the abstraction include modalities for detection and structuring of a complete feature set. For example, in a cancer ontology abstraction engine, the following list of features may be supported.
[0044]
Feature collections may include a diverse set of fields available within patient health records. Clinical information may be based upon fields which have been entered into an electronic medical record (EMR) or an electronic health record (EHR) by a physician, nurse, or other medical professional or representative. Other clinical information may be curated from other sources, such as molecular fields from genetic sequencing reports. Sequencing may include next-generation sequencing (NGS) and may be long-read, short-read, or other forms of sequencing a patient's somatic and/or normal genome. A comprehensive collection of features in additional feature modules may combine a variety of features together across varying fields of medicine which may include diagnoses, responses to treatment regimens, genetic profiles, clinical and phenotypic characteristics, and/or other medical, geographic, demographic, clinical, molecular, or genetic features. For example, a subset of features may comprise molecular data features, such as features derived from an RNA feature module or a DNA feature module sequencing.
[0045]
Another subset of features, imaging features from imaging feature module, may comprise features identified through review of a specimen through pathologist review, such as a review of stained H&E or IHC slides. As another example, a subset of features may comprise derivative features obtained from the analysis of the individual and combined results of such feature sets. Features derived from DNA and RNA sequencing may include genetic variants from variant science module which are present in the sequenced tissue. Further analysis of the genetic variants may include additional steps such as identifying single or multiple nucleotide polymorphisms, identifying whether a variation is an insertion or deletion event, identifying loss or gain of function, identifying fusions, calculating copy number variation, calculating microsatellite instability, calculating tumor mutational burden, or other structural variations within the DNA and RNA. Analysis of slides for H&E staining or IHC staining may reveal features such as tumor infiltration, programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) status, human leukocyte antigen (HLA) status, or other immunology features.
[0046]
Features derived from structured, curated, or electronic medical or health records may include clinical features such as diagnosis, symptoms, therapies, outcomes, patient demographics such as patient name, date of birth, gender, ethnicity, date of death, address, smoking status, diagnosis dates for cancer, illness, disease, diabetes, depression, other physical or mental maladies, personal medical history, family medical history, clinical diagnoses such as date of initial diagnosis, date of metastatic diagnosis, cancer staging, tumor characterization, tissue of origin, treatments and outcomes such as line of therapy, therapy groups, clinical trials, medications prescribed or taken, surgeries, radiotherapy, imaging, adverse effects, associated outcomes, genetic testing and laboratory information such as performance scores, lab tests, pathology results, prognostic indicators, date of genetic testing, testing provider used, testing method used, such as genetic sequencing method or gene panel, gene results, such as included genes, variants, expression levels/statuses, or corresponding dates to any of the above.
[0047]
Features may be derived from information from additional medical or research based Omics fields including proteome, transcriptome, epigenome, metabolome, microbiome, and other multi-omic fields. Features derived from an organoid modeling lab may include the DNA and RNA sequencing information germane to each organoid and results from treatments applied to those organoids. Features derived from imaging data may further include reports associated with a stained slide, size of tumor, tumor size differentials over time including treatments during the period of change, as well as machine learning approaches for classifying PDL1 status, HLA status, or other characteristics from imaging data. Other features may include the additional derivative features sets from other machine learning approaches based at least in part on combinations of any new features and/or those listed above. For example, imaging results may need to be combined with MSI calculations derived from RNA expressions to determine additional further imaging features. In another example a machine learning model may generate a likelihood that a patient's cancer will metastasize to a particular organ or a patient's future probability of metastasis to yet another organ in the body. Other features that may be extracted from medical information may also be used. There are many thousands of features, and the above listing of types of features are merely representative and should not be construed as a complete listing of features.
[0048]
An alteration module may be one or more microservices, servers, scripts, or other executable algorithms which generate alteration features associated with de-identified patient features from the feature collection. Alterations modules may retrieve inputs from the feature collection and may provide alterations for storage. Exemplary alterations modules may include one or more of the following alterations as a collection of alteration modules. An SNP (single-nucleotide polymorphism) module may identify a substitution of a single nucleotide that occurs at a specific position in the genome, where each variation is present to some appreciable degree within a population (e.g. >1%). For example, at a specific base position, or loci, in the human genome, the C nucleotide may appear in most individuals, but in a minority of individuals, the position is occupied by an A. This means that there is a SNP at this specific position and the two possible nucleotide variations, C or A, are said to be alleles for this position. SNPs underline differences in our susceptibility to a wide range of diseases (e.g.—sickle-cell anemia, β-thalassemia and cystic fibrosis result from SNPs). The severity of illness and the way the body responds to treatments are also manifestations of genetic variations. For example, a single-base mutation in the APOE (apolipoprotein E) gene is associated with a lower risk for Alzheimer's disease. A single-nucleotide variant (SNV) is a variation in a single nucleotide without any limitations of frequency and may arise in somatic cells. A somatic single-nucleotide variation (e.g., caused by cancer) may also be called a single-nucleotide alteration. An MNP (Multiple-nucleotide polymorphisms) module may identify the substitution of consecutive nucleotides at a specific position in the genome. An InDels module may identify an insertion or deletion of bases in the genome of an organism classified among small genetic variations. While usually measuring from 1 to 10 000 base pairs in length, a microindel is defined as an indel that results in a net change of 1 to 50 nucleotides. Indels can be contrasted with a SNP or point mutation. An indel inserts and deletes nucleotides from a sequence, while a point mutation is a form of substitution that replaces one of the nucleotides without changing the overall number in the DNA. Indels, being either insertions, or deletions, can be used as genetic markers in natural populations, especially in phylogenetic studies. Indel frequency tends to be markedly lower than that of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP), except near highly repetitive regions, including homopolymers and microsatellites. An MSI (microsatellite instability) module may identify genetic hypermutability (predisposition to mutation) that results from impaired DNA mismatch repair (MMR). The presence of MSI represents phenotypic evidence that MMR is not functioning normally. MMR corrects errors that spontaneously occur during DNA replication, such as single base mismatches or short insertions and deletions. The proteins involved in MMR correct polymerase errors by forming a complex that binds to the mismatched section of DNA, excises the error, and inserts the correct sequence in its place. Cells with abnormally functioning MMR are unable to correct errors that occur during DNA replication and consequently accumulate errors. This causes the creation of novel microsatellite fragments. Polymerase chain reaction-based assays can reveal these novel microsatellites and provide evidence for the presence of MSI. Microsatellites are repeated sequences of DNA. These sequences can be made of repeating units of one to six base pairs in length. Although the length of these microsatellites is highly variable from person to person and contributes to the individual DNA “fingerprint”, each individual has microsatellites of a set length. The most common microsatellite in humans is a dinucleotide repeat of the nucleotides C and A, which occurs tens of thousands of times across the genome. Microsatellites are also known as simple sequence repeats (SSRs). A TMB (tumor mutational burden) module may identify a measurement of mutations carried by tumor cells and is a predictive biomarker being studied to evaluate its association with response to Immuno-Oncology (I-O) therapy. Tumor cells with high TMB may have more neoantigens, with an associated increase in cancer-fighting T cells in the tumor microenvironment and periphery. These neoantigens can be recognized by T cells, inciting an anti-tumor response. TMB has emerged more recently as a quantitative marker that can help predict potential responses to immunotherapies across different cancers, including melanoma, lung cancer and bladder cancer. TMB is defined as the total number of mutations per coding area of a tumor genome. Importantly, TMB is consistently reproducible. It provides a quantitative measure that can be used to better inform treatment decisions, such as selection of targeted or immunotherapies or enrollment in clinical trials. A CNV (copy number variation) module may identify deviations from the normal genome and any subsequent implications from analyzing genes, variants, alleles, or sequences of nucleotides. CNV are the phenomenon in which structural variations may occur in sections of nucleotides, or base pairs, that include repetitions, deletions, or inversions. A Fusions module may identify hybrid genes formed from two previously separate genes. It can occur as a result of: translocation, interstitial deletion, or chromosomal inversion. Gene fusion plays an important role in tumorgenesis. Fusion genes can contribute to tumor formation because fusion genes can produce much more active abnormal protein than non-fusion genes. Often, fusion genes are oncogenes that cause cancer; these include BCR-ABL, TEL-AML1 (ALL with t(12; 21)), AML1-ETO (M2 AML with t(8; 21)), and TMPRSS2-ERG with an interstitial deletion on chromosome 21, often occurring in prostate cancer. In the case of TMPRSS2-ERG, by disrupting androgen receptor (AR) signaling and inhibiting AR expression by oncogenic ETS transcription factor, the fusion product regulates the prostate cancer. Most fusion genes are found from hematological cancers, sarcomas, and prostate cancer. BCAM-AKT2 is a fusion gene that is specific and unique to high-grade serous ovarian cancer. Oncogenic fusion genes may lead to a gene product with a new or different function from the two fusion partners. Alternatively, a proto-oncogene is fused to a strong promoter, and thereby the oncogenic function is set to function by an upregulation caused by the strong promoter of the upstream fusion partner. The latter is common in lymphomas, where oncogenes are juxtaposed to the promoters of the immunoglobulin genes. Oncogenic fusion transcripts may also be caused by trans-splicing or read-through events. Since chromosomal translocations play such a significant role in neoplasia, a specialized database of chromosomal aberrations and gene fusions in cancer has been created. This database is called Mitelman Database of Chromosome Aberrations and Gene Fusions in Cancer. An IHC (Immunohistochemistry) module may identify antigens (proteins) in cells of a tissue section by exploiting the principle of antibodies binding specifically to antigens in biological tissues. IHC staining is widely used in the diagnosis of abnormal cells such as those found in cancerous tumors. Specific molecular markers are characteristic of particular cellular events such as proliferation or cell death (apoptosis). IHC is also widely used in basic research to understand the distribution and localization of biomarkers and differentially expressed proteins in different parts of a biological tissue. Visualising an antibody-antigen interaction can be accomplished in a number of ways. In the most common instance, an antibody is conjugated to an enzyme, such as peroxidase, that can catalyse a color-producing reaction in immunoperoxidase staining. Alternatively, the antibody can also be tagged to a fluorophore, such as fluorescein or rhodamine in immunofluorescence. Approximations from RNA expression data, H&E slide imaging data, or other data may be generated. A Therapies module may identify differences in cancer cells (or other cells near them) that help them grow and thrive and drugs that “target” these differences. Treatment with these drugs is called targeted therapy. For example, many targeted drugs go after the cancer cells' inner ‘programming’ that makes them different from normal, healthy cells, while leaving most healthy cells alone. Targeted drugs may block or turn off chemical signals that tell the cancer cell to grow and divide; change proteins within the cancer cells so the cells die; stop making new blood vessels to feed the cancer cells; trigger your immune system to kill the cancer cells; or carry toxins to the cancer cells to kill them, but not normal cells. Some targeted drugs are more “targeted” than others. Some might target only a single change in cancer cells, while others can affect several different changes. Others boost the way your body fights the cancer cells. This can affect where these drugs work and what side effects they cause. Matching targeted therapies may include identifying the therapy targets in the patients and satisfying any other inclusion or exclusion criteria. A VUS (variant of unknown significance) module may identify variants which are called but cannot be classify as pathogenic or benign at the time of calling. VUS may be catalogued from publications regarding a VUS to identify if they may be classified as benign or pathogenic. A Trial module may identify and test hypotheses for treating cancers having specific characteristics by matching features of a patient to clinical trials. These trials have inclusion and exclusion criteria that must be matched to enroll which may be ingested and structured from publications, trial reports, or other documentation. An Amplifications module may identify genes which increase in count disproportionately to other genes. Amplifications may cause a gene having the increased count to go dormant, become overactive, or operate in another unexpected fashion. Amplifications may be detected at a gene level, variant level, RNA transcript or expression level, or even a protein level. Detections may be performed across all the different detection mechanisms or levels and validated against one another. An Isoforms module may identify alternative splicing (AS), the biological process in which more than one mRNA (isoforms) is generated from the transcript of a same gene through different combinations of exons and introns. It is estimated by large-scale genomics studies that 30-60% of mammalian genes are alternatively spliced. The possible patterns of alternative splicing for a gene can be very complicated and the complexity increases rapidly as number of introns in a gene increases. In silico alternative splicing prediction may find large insertions or deletions within a set of mRNA sharing a large portion of aligned sequences by identifying genomic loci through searches of mRNA sequences against genomic sequences, extracting sequences for genomic loci and extending the sequences at both ends up to 20 kb, searching the genomic sequences (repeat sequences have been masked), extracting splicing pairs (two boundaries of alignment gap with GT-AG consensus or with more than two expressed sequence tags aligned at both ends of the gap), assembling splicing pairs according to their coordinates, determining gene boundaries (splicing pair predictions are generated to this point), generating predicted gene structures by aligning mRNA sequences to genomic templates, and comparing splicing pair predictions and gene structure predictions to find alternative spliced isoforms. A Pathways module may identify defects in DNA repair pathways which enable cancer cells to accumulate genomic alterations that contribute to their aggressive phenotype. Cancerous tumors rely on residual DNA repair capacities to survive the damage induced by genotoxic stress which leads to isolated DNA repair pathways being inactivated in cancer cells. DNA repair pathways are generally thought of as mutually exclusive mechanistic units handling different types of lesions in distinct cell cycle phases. Recent preclinical studies, however, provide strong evidence that multifunctional DNA repair hubs, which are involved in multiple conventional DNA repair pathways, are frequently altered in cancer. Identifying pathways which may be affected may lead to important patient treatment considerations. A Raw Counts module may identify a count of the variants that are detected from the sequencing data. For DNA, this may be the number of reads from sequencing which correspond to a particular variant in a gene. For RNA, this may be the gene expression counts or the transcriptome counts from sequencing.
[0049]
Structural variant classification may include evaluating features from the feature collection, alterations from the alteration module, and other classifications from within itself from one or more classification modules. Structural variant classification may provide classifications to a stored classifications storage. An exemplary classification module may include a classification of a CNV as “Reportable” may mean that the CNV has been identified in one or more reference databases as influencing the tumor cancer characterization, disease state, or pharmacogenomics, “Not Reportable” may mean that the CNV has not been identified as such, and “Conflicting Evidence” may mean that the CNV has both evidence suggesting “Reportable” and “Not Reportable.” Furthermore, a classification of therapeutic relevance is similarly ascertained from any reference datasets mention of a therapy which may be impacted by the detection (or non-detection) of the CNV. Other classifications may include applications of machine learning algorithms, neural networks, regression techniques, graphing techniques, inductive reasoning approaches, or other artificial intelligence evaluations within modules. A classifier for clinical trials may include evaluation of variants identified from the alteration module which have been identified as significant or reportable, evaluation of all clinical trials available to identify inclusion and exclusion criteria, mapping the patient's variants and other information to the inclusion and exclusion criteria, and classifying clinical trials as applicable to the patient or as not applicable to the patient. Similar classifications may be performed for therapies, loss-of-function, gain-of-function, diagnosis, microsatellite instability, tumor mutational burden, indels, SNP, MNP, fusions, and other alterations which may be classified based upon the results of the alteration modules.
[0050]
Each of the feature collection, alteration module(s), structural variant and feature store may be communicatively coupled to a data bus to transfer data between each module for processing and/or storage. In another embodiment, each of the feature collection, alteration module(s), structural variant and feature store may be communicatively coupled to each other for independent communication without sharing the data bus.
[0051]
In addition to the above features and enumerated modules. Feature modules may further include one or more of the following modules within their respective modules as a sub-module or as a standalone module.
[0052]
Germline/somatic DNA feature module may comprise a feature collection associated with the DNA-derived information of a patient or a patient's tumor. These features may include raw sequencing results, such as those stored in FASTQ, BAM, VCF, or other sequencing file types known in the art; genes; mutations; variant calls; and variant characterizations. Genomic information from a patient's normal sample may be stored as germline and genomic information from a patient's tumor sample may be stored as somatic.
[0053]
An RNA feature module may comprise a feature collection associated with the RNA-derived information of a patient, such as transcriptome information. These features may include raw sequencing results, transcriptome expressions, genes, mutations, variant calls, and variant characterizations.
[0054]
A metadata module may comprise a feature collection associated with the human genome, protein structures and their effects, such as changes in energy stability based on a protein structure.
[0055]
A clinical module may comprise a feature collection associated with information derived from clinical records of a patient and records from family members of the patient. These may be abstracted from unstructured clinical documents, EMR, EHR, or other sources of patient history. Information may include patient symptoms, diagnosis, treatments, medications, therapies, hospice, responses to treatments, laboratory testing results, medical history, geographic locations of each, demographics, or other features of the patient which may be found in the patient's medical record. Information about treatments, medications, therapies, and the like may be ingested as a recommendation or prescription and/or as a confirmation that such treatments, medications, therapies, and the like were administered or taken.
[0056]
An imaging module may comprise a feature collection associated with information derived from imaging records of a patient. Imaging records may include H&E slides, IHC slides, radiology images, and other medical imaging which may be ordered by a physician during the course of diagnosis and treatment of various illnesses and diseases. These features may include TMB, ploidy, purity, nuclear-cytoplasmic ratio, large nuclei, cell state alterations, biological pathway activations, hormone receptor alterations, immune cell infiltration, immune biomarkers of MMR, MSI, PDL1, CD3, FOXP3, HRD, PTEN, PIK3CA; collagen or stroma composition, appearance, density, or characteristics; tumor budding, size, aggressiveness, metastasis, immune state, chromatin morphology; and other characteristics of cells, tissues, or tumors for prognostic predictions.
[0057]
An epigenome module, such as epigenome module from Omics, may comprise a feature collection associated with information derived from DNA modifications which are not changes to the DNA sequence and regulate the gene expression. These modifications are frequently the result of environmental factors based on what the patient may breathe, eat, or drink. These features may include DNA methylation, histone modification, or other factors which deactivate a gene or cause alterations to gene function without altering the sequence of nucleotides in the gene.
[0058]
A microbiome module, such as microbiome module from Omics, may comprise a feature collection associated with information derived from the viruses and bacteria of a patient. These features may include viral infections which may affect treatment and diagnosis of certain illnesses as well as the bacteria present in the patient's gastrointestinal tract which may affect the efficacy of medicines ingested by the patient.
[0059]
A proteome module, such as proteome module from Omics, may comprise a feature collection associated with information derived from the proteins produced in the patient. These features may include protein composition, structure, and activity; when and where proteins are expressed; rates of protein production, degradation, and steady-state abundance; how proteins are modified, for example, post-translational modifications such as phosphorylation; the movement of proteins between subcellular compartments; the involvement of proteins in metabolic pathways; how proteins interact with one another; or modifications to the protein after translation from the RNA such as phosphorylation, ubiquitination, methylation, acetylation, glycosylation, oxidation, or nitrosylation.
[0060]
Additional Omics module(s) may also be included in Omics, such as a feature collection associated with all the different field of omics, including: cognitive genomics, a collection of features comprising the study of the changes in cognitive processes associated with genetic profiles; comparative genomics, a collection of features comprising the study of the relationship of genome structure and function across different biological species or strains; functional genomics, a collection of features comprising the study of gene and protein functions and interactions including transcriptomics; interactomics, a collection of features comprising the study relating to large-scale analyses of gene-gene, protein-protein, or protein-ligand interactions; metagenomics, a collection of features comprising the study of metagenomes such as genetic material recovered directly from environmental samples; neurogenomics, a collection of features comprising the study of genetic influences on the development and function of the nervous system; pangenomics, a collection of features comprising the study of the entire collection of gene families found within a given species; personal genomics, a collection of features comprising the study of genomics concerned with the sequencing and analysis of the genome of an individual such that once the genotypes are known, the individual's genotype can be compared with the published literature to determine likelihood of trait expression and disease risk to enhance personalized medicine suggestions; epigenomics, a collection of features comprising the study of supporting the structure of genome, including protein and RNA binders, alternative DNA structures, and chemical modifications on DNA; nucleomics, a collection of features comprising the study of the complete set of genomic components which form the cell nucleus as a complex, dynamic biological system; lipidomics, a collection of features comprising the study of cellular lipids, including the modifications made to any particular set of lipids produced by a patient; proteomics, a collection of features comprising the study of proteins, including the modifications made to any particular set of proteins produced by a patient; immunoproteomics, a collection of features comprising the study of large sets of proteins involved in the immune response; nutriproteomics, a collection of features comprising the study of identifying molecular targets of nutritive and non-nutritive components of the diet including the use of proteomics mass spectrometry data for protein expression studies; proteogenomics, a collection of features comprising the study of biological research at the intersection of proteomics and genomics including data which identifies gene annotations; structural genomics, a collection of features comprising the study of 3-dimensional structure of every protein encoded by a given genome using a combination of modeling approaches; glycomics, a collection of features comprising the study of sugars and carbohydrates and their effects in the patient; foodomics, a collection of features comprising the study of the intersection between the food and nutrition domains through the application and integration of technologies to improve consumer's well-being, health, and knowledge; transcriptomics, a collection of features comprising the study of RNA molecules, including mRNA, rRNA, tRNA, and other non-coding RNA, produced in cells; metabolomics, a collection of features comprising the study of chemical processes involving metabolites, or unique chemical fingerprints that specific cellular processes leave behind, and their small-molecule metabolite profiles; metabonomics, a collection of features comprising the study of the quantitative measurement of the dynamic multiparametric metabolic response of cells to pathophysiological stimuli or genetic modification; nutrigenetics, a collection of features comprising the study of genetic variations on the interaction between diet and health with implications to susceptible subgroups; cognitive genomics, a collection of features comprising the study of the changes in cognitive processes associated with genetic profiles; pharmacogenomics, a collection of features comprising the study of the effect of the sum of variations within the human genome on drugs; pharmacomicrobiomics, a collection of features comprising the study of the effect of variations within the human microbiome on drugs; toxicogenomics, a collection of features comprising the study of gene and protein activity within particular cell or tissue of an organism in response to toxic substances; mitointeractome, a collection of features comprising the study of the process by which the mitochondria proteins interact; psychogenomics, a collection of features comprising the study of the process of applying the powerful tools of genomics and proteomics to achieve a better understanding of the biological substrates of normal behavior and of diseases of the brain that manifest themselves as behavioral abnormalities, including applying psychogenomics to the study of drug addiction to develop more effective treatments for these disorders as well as objective diagnostic tools, preventive measures, and cures; stem cell genomics, a collection of features comprising the study of stem cell biology to establish stem cells as a model system for understanding human biology and disease states; connectomics, a collection of features comprising the study of the neural connections in the brain; microbiomics, a collection of features comprising the study of the genomes of the communities of microorganisms that live in the digestive tract; cellomics, a collection of features comprising the study of the quantitative cell analysis and study using bioimaging methods and bioinformatics; tomomics, a collection of features comprising the study of tomography and omics methods to understand tissue or cell biochemistry at high spatial resolution from imaging mass spectrometry data; ethomics, a collection of features comprising the study of high-throughput machine measurement of patient behavior; and videomics, a collection of features comprising the study of a video analysis paradigm inspired by genomics principles, where a continuous image sequence, or video, can be interpreted as the capture of a single image evolving through time of mutations revealing patient insights.
[0061]
A sufficiently robust collection of features may include all of the features disclosed above; however, models and predictions based from the available features may include models which are optimized and trained from a selection of features that are much more limiting than the exhaustive feature set. Such a constrained feature set may include as few as tens to hundreds of features. For example, a model's constrained feature set may include the genomic results of a sequencing of the patient's tumor, derivative features based upon the genomic results, the patient's tumor origin, the patient's age at diagnosis, the patient's gender and race, and symptoms that the patient brought to their physicians attention during a routine checkup.
[0062]
A feature store may enhance a patient's feature set through the application of machine learning and analytics by selecting from any features, alterations, or calculated output derived from the patient's features or alterations to those features. Such a feature store may generate new features from the original features found in feature module or may identify and store important insights or analysis based upon the features. The selections of features may be based upon an alteration or calculation to be generated, and may include the calculation of single or multiple nucleotide polymorphisms insertion or deletions of the genome, a tumor mutational burden, a microsatellite instability, a copy number variation, a fusion, or other such calculations. An exemplary output of an alteration or calculation generated which may inform future alterations or calculations includes a finding of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) and variants in MYH7. Wherein previous classified variants may be identified in the patient's genome which may inform the classification of novel variants or indicate a further risk of disease. An exemplary approach may include the enrichment of variants and their respective classifications to identify a region in MYH7 that is associated with HCM. Any novel variants detected from a patient's sequencing localized to this region would increase the patient's risk for HCM. Features which may be utilized in such an alteration detection include the structure of MYH7 and classification of variants therein. A model which focuses on enrichment may isolate such variants.
[0063]
The above referenced artificial intelligence models may be gradient boosting models, random forest models, neural networks (NN), regression models, Naive Bayes models, or machine learning algorithms (MLA). A MLA or a NN may be trained from a training data set. In an exemplary prediction profile, a training data set may include imaging, pathology, clinical, and/or molecular reports and details of a patient, such as those curated from an EHR or genetic sequencing reports. MLAs include supervised algorithms (such as algorithms where the features/classifications in the data set are annotated) using linear regression, logistic regression, decision trees, classification and regression trees, Naïve Bayes, nearest neighbor clustering; unsupervised algorithms (such as algorithms where no features/classification in the data set are annotated) using Apriori, means clustering, principal component analysis, random forest, adaptive boosting; and semi-supervised algorithms (such as algorithms where an incomplete number of features/classifications in the data set are annotated) using generative approach (such as a mixture of Gaussian distributions, mixture of multinomial distributions, hidden Markov models), low density separation, graph-based approaches (such as mincut, harmonic function, manifold regularization), heuristic approaches, or support vector machines. NNs include conditional random fields, convolutional neural networks, attention based neural networks, deep learning, long short term memory networks, or other neural models where the training data set includes a plurality of tumor samples, RNA expression data for each sample, and pathology reports covering imaging data for each sample. While MLA and neural networks identify distinct approaches to machine learning, the terms may be used interchangeably herein. Thus, a mention of MLA may include a corresponding NN or a mention of NN may include a corresponding MLA unless explicitly stated otherwise. Training may include providing optimized datasets, labeling these traits as they occur in patient records, and training the MLA to predict or classify based on new inputs. Artificial NNs are efficient computing models which have shown their strengths in solving hard problems in artificial intelligence. They have also been shown to be universal approximators (can represent a wide variety of functions when given appropriate parameters). Some MLA may identify features of importance and identify a coefficient, or weight, to them. The coefficient may be multiplied with the occurrence frequency of the feature to generate a score, and once the scores of one or more features exceed a threshold, certain classifications may be predicted by the MLA. A coefficient schema may be combined with a rule based schema to generate more complicated predictions, such as predictions based upon multiple features. For example, ten key features may be identified across different classifications. A list of coefficients may exist for the key features, and a rule set may exist for the classification. A rule set may be based upon the number of occurrences of the feature, the scaled weights of the features, or other qualitative and quantitative assessments of features encoded in logic known to those of ordinary skill in the art. In other MLA, features may be organized in a binary tree structure. For example, key features which distinguish between the most classifications may exist as the root of the binary tree and each subsequent branch in the tree until a classification may be awarded based upon reaching a terminal node of the tree. For example, a binary tree may have a root node which tests for a first feature. The occurrence or non-occurrence of this feature must exist (the binary decision), and the logic may traverse the branch which is true for the item being classified. Additional rules may be based upon thresholds, ranges, or other qualitative and quantitative tests. While supervised methods are useful when the training dataset has many known values or annotations, the nature of EMR/EHR documents is that there may not be many annotations provided. When exploring large amounts of unlabeled data, unsupervised methods are useful for binning/bucketing instances in the data set. A single instance of the above models, or two or more such instances in combination, may constitute a model for the purposes of models, artificial intelligence, neural networks, or machine learning algorithms, herein.
[0064]
An abstraction system, such as the system of FIG. 1 may support any of the features detailed herein. For the purposes of illustrating the capabilities of the intake pipeline for extracting information from patient records and populating structured fields, the following exemplary feature abstractions are provided.
[0065]
As seen in FIG. 2, the sentence “The patient was given Tylenol 50 mg at 10:35 am.” in a document dated Jan. 1, 2001, may be encoded field-by-field by identifying and populating one or more fields of:
[0066]
Text: The entirety of the text (i.e., “The patient was given Tylenol 50 mg at 10:35 am.”).
[0067]
Medication: Identifying any medication mentioned in the text (i.e., Tylenol). Medications may be brand name or generic name. This field does not include information about the dosage or method of administration.
[0068]
Active Ingredient: Identifying the active ingredients (i.e., acetaminophen) of the medication mentioned using a list such as a search table linking drug names to their active ingredients.
[0069]
Dosage & Dosage Units: The dosage (i.e., 50 mg) associated with the medication mentioned. In the above example, identifying that the dosage as 50 mg is fairly straightforward by reading the sentence, but clinical data is often printed in tables with a variety of structures that are not easy to infer. As such, normalizing the dosage and dosage units by separating value 50 into the dosage field and string “mg” or by selecting a known value entry for the milligram units within a list may be preferable.
[0070]
Document & Page: The document and page where the text is found (i.e., Progress Note 01_01_01.pdf and page 3).
[0071]
UMLS_CUI: The Concept Unique Identifier (CUI) field (i.e., C1234567) of the UMLS entry corresponding to the medication. The UMLS is a list of medical concepts (described in more detail with respect to FIG. 7, below) and the UMLS_CUI refers to the CUI field, which is UMLS' universal identifier. UMLS is comprised of a number of independently maintained clinical dictionaries and ontologies (e.g., those for cancer diagnosis & treatment, dentistry, veterinarian medicine, etc.). That is, the CUIs are universal to UMLS, e.g., there is only one CUI for Tylenol across all of its constituent dictionaries that enables UMLS to unite all of these disparate sources.
[0072]
UMLS_AUI: The Atom Unique Identifier (AUI) field (i.e., RXNORM #12345) is the dictionary-specific identifying code of the UMLS. Where the CUI is universal, and has the same entry across all included sources, the AUI for Tylenol will have different AUIs for each dictionary that it has an entry in.
[0073]
In an alternate embodiment, structured data for a procedurally focused conversion of data may include receiving the sentence “The patient underwent a lumpectomy to remove an area of Ductal Carcinoma in Situ.” in a document dated Jan. 1, 2001, which may be encoded field-by-field by identifying and populating one or more fields of:
[0074]
Text: The entirety of the text (i.e., “The patient underwent a lumpectomy to remove an area of Ductal Carcinoma in Situ.”).
[0075]
Procedure: The surgical procedure performed on the patient. This may be a canonical name (i.e. Lumpectomy) or synonym (e.g. Breast conservation surgery).
[0076]
Diagnosis: The condition which the surgery aims to treat (i.e. Ductal Carcinoma in Situ).
[0077]
Document & Page: The document and page where the text is found (i.e., Progress Note 01_01_01.pdf and page 5).
[0078]
UMLS_CUI: The Concept Unique Identifier (CUI) field (i.e., C1234568) of the UMLS entry corresponding to the procedure.
[0079]
UMLS_AUI: The Atom Unique Identifier (AUI) field (i.e., RXNORM #12346) is the dictionary-specific identifying code of the UMLS. Where the CUI is universal, and has the same entry across all included sources, the AUI for Lumpectomy will have different AUIs for each dictionary that it has an entry in.
[0080]
In yet another embodiment, structured data for a treatment focused conversion of data may include receiving the sentence “After the patient's lumpectomy to remove an area of Ductal Carcinoma in Situ, they will receive brachytherapy.” in a document dated Jan. 1, 2001, may be encoded field-by-field by identifying and populating one or more fields of:
[0081]
Text: The entirety of the text (i.e., “After the patient's procedure, they will receive brachytherapy.”).
[0082]
Radiotherapy Modality: The type of radiotherapy that the patient will receive (i.e. Brachytherapy).
[0083]
Document & Page: The document and page where the text is found (i.e., Progress Note 01_01_01.pdf and page 6).
[0084]
UMLS_CUI: The Concept Unique Identifier (CUI) field (i.e., C1234569) of the UMLS entry corresponding to the radiotherapy modality.
[0085]
UMLS_AUI: The Atom Unique Identifier (AUI) field (i.e., RXNORM #12348) is the dictionary-specific identifying code of the UMLS. Where the CUI is universal, and has the same entry across all included sources, the AUI for Brachytherapy will have different AUIs for each dictionary that it has an entry in.
[0086]
Structured data for another therapy focused conversion of data may include the sentence “The patient will receive hormone therapy once daily for a period of 5 years.” in a document dated Jan. 1, 2001, which may be encoded field-by-field by identifying and populating one or more fields of:
[0087]
Text: The entirety of the text (i.e., “The patient will receive hormone therapy once daily for a period of 5 years.”).
[0088]
Treatment: The treatment the patient will receive (i.e. hormone therapy).
[0089]
Frequency: The frequency of applications of this treatment (i.e. once daily).
[0090]
Duration: The duration of this round of treatment (i.e. 5 years).
[0091]
Document & Page: The document and page where the text is found (i.e., Progress Note 01_01_01.pdf and page 6).
[0092]
UMLS_CUI: The Concept Unique Identifier (CUI) field (i.e., C1234570) of the UMLS entry corresponding to the treatment.
[0093]
UMLS_AUI: The Atom Unique Identifier (AUI) field (i.e., RXNORM #12349) is the dictionary-specific identifying code of the UMLS. Where the CUI is universal, and has the same entry across all included sources, the AUI for hormone therapy will have different AUIs for each dictionary that it has an entry in.
[0094]
In one instance, the above fields may be populated by a data analyst with sufficient medical knowledge and access to the requisite databases. Such an analyst may apply their education and experiences in the field of medicine to identify any medications administered despite confounding factors present in the text (e.g., shorthand, typos, obscure references), their dosage, and understand the integration of the two in the provided text. However, analysts are constrained by their human limits. Actions such as locating the data, opening it up in either a physical or digital format, reading through documents of 100 s or 1000 s of pages, etc. all require considerable time. Furthermore, the companies and institutions which hire analysts must invest in considerable financial expenses to hire, train, and maintain teams of analysts. Incorporating a combination of machine learning algorithms (MLA) and natural language processing (NLP) algorithms into this process may substantially improve the efficiency of the analysts or replace them altogether. The MLA and NLP algorithms will be discussed in more detail with respect to FIGS. 3-7, below. Before text may pass through the multiple layers of MLA and NLP algorithms, it must be extracted from the documents using optical character recognition (OCR) and cleaned up through a variety of pre-processing steps.
[0095]
Turning now to FIG. 1, a high level overview of an exemplary processing pipeline 100 is provided. An exemplary Intake Pipeline 110 may be configured to perform the following processing steps: 1. OCR, 2. Pre-processing, 3. Sentence Splitting, 4. Candidate Extraction, 5. Entity Linking, 6. Entity Normalization, and 7. Entity Structuring. Specifically, and with reference to FIG. 1, pipeline stage 120 for pre-processing may include OCR and text cleaning, stage 130 for parsing may include NLP algorithms for sentence splitting and candidate extraction, stage 140 for dictionary lookups may include entity linking, stage 150 for normalization may include entity normalization, stage 160 for structuring may include entity structuring, and stage 170 for post-processing may include structuring the data and formatting it into a universal EMR or institution based EMR format. Due to the asynchronous and modular nature of the pipeline stages, each stage may pass data directly to the next stage based on processing availability or may store data in a corresponding portion of a storage component or database. Batching or caching may be leveraged to provide additional time and resource reductions as cached results may be stored in the data repository for importing directly into an updated pipeline stage rather than reprocessing all records through the whole pipeline. In an exemplary embodiment, a sentence splitting algorithm may be stored in a cloud-based server or on a local/remote server 135 and may be incorporated into the parser at stage 130. A sentence splitting algorithm may be incorporated directly into the parser at stage 130 and invoked as a subroutine. A fuzzy matching algorithm 145 may be incorporated into the dictionary lookup at stage 140. In lieu of a fuzzy matching algorithm, a dictionary lookup algorithm with hardcoded alternatives may be implemented at stage 140. An Ontological graphing algorithm 155 may be incorporated into the normalization at stage 150. In lieu of an ontological graphing algorithm 155, normalization at stage 150 may include a second dictionary lookup algorithm with hardcoded mappings to relevant concepts. In other embodiments, hardcoded mappings and/or alternatives may be identified in real time during processing by comparing mappings and alternatives to a selection criteria, such as those mappings and alternatives which are located in pre-approved databases.
[0096]
For example, upon receiving a record update or a request in the form of a clinical document, a database of multiple documents, or another form of patient record, the request may pass through a pre-processing subroutine, a parsing subroutine, a dictionary lookup subroutine, a normalization subroutine, a structuring subroutine for filtering and/or ranking, and a post-processing subroutine in order to generate and serve a response to a remainder of the system. The first four of these subroutines may encompass a first layer, in which the system identifies and structures clinical concepts with corresponding metadata (i.e., clinical or medical concepts) extracted from clinical documents.
[0097]
The intake pipeline 110 receives a clinical document that may include machine readable text or that may be received as an image file. If necessary, the document may be submitted to a pre-processor stage 120 that performs text cleaning and error detection (i.e., format conversion, resolution conversion, batch sizing, text cleaning, etc.). Once pre-processed, the document may be submitted for OCR on the document to convert the text into a machine-readable format (i.e., text document, html, etc.). Once in a machine-readable format, the error correction (e.g., spell checking, noise removal, context based correlation, etc.) may be performed on the now-machine-readable text. The intake pipeline stages 120-150 are modular components, which allows for real-time selection of the best processing tools and software depending on the type of document and document content being processed, enabling the processing pipeline to replace/compare algorithms used as necessary. Two examples of OCR software that may be used include Tesseract and Google Cloud Vision API. Tesseract provides high-speed OCR for documents which do not have any artifacting/noise (i.e., documents that have been printed to PDF or that had very little noise generated during the scanning process). Google Cloud Vision API, conversely, may be used for documents which have too much noise, as it is well-suited to process old documents or images of documents that have been scanned/faxed many times, introducing extensive artifacting and noise into the image. As a result, Cloud Vision may provide detailed information about the position of paragraphs, words, and documents within the documents processed. Other OCR systems may also be utilized in lieu of or in combination with the two described above.
[0098]
The modularity of each processing stage requires different pre-processing mechanisms for each OCR service/software implemented. For example, different OCR services support some image formats and resolutions for OCR but may not support others. When processing patient records, many document formats included within the record are unsupported, and may require format conversion from the unsupported format to a support format. Exemplary conversions may take documents of a variety of formats (PDF, PNG, JPG, etc.) and convert them to a format that each respective OCR service accepts (e.g., JPG, PNG, etc.). During format conversion, additional processing may be performed for parameter optimization for each respective document to achieve the best results from the OCR service selected (e.g. converting documents from a source resolution to a resolution [dpi] best supported, combining multiple requests into one to optimize batch processing). For example, when utilizing Google Cloud Vision, images may need to be format-converted to 300 dpi JPG files. Furthermore, Google Cloud Vision API charges for OCR on a per-request basis, but supports requests of up to 4 MB and supports batch requests (i.e. including as many images as can fit in one 4 MB requests) for no extra cost. Additional processing may be performed to include additional document images into a request to place each request at the maximum file size and use batch processing to decrease costs.
[0099]
Documents received at the pre-preprocessing stage may be in various text formats (e.g. DOC, DOCX, RTF, or as values in a spreadsheet/database). For simple documents, pre-processing may be performed by simply extracting any text directly (e.g., TXT, RTF, etc.), but some require advanced software to parse the file formats (e.g. DOCX, PDF, ACCDB). Exemplary software for parsing more complex file formats include pandoc and PDFBox.
[0100]
In another embodiment, additional pre-processing may be performed after submitting an image to OCR to determine whether the detected text is “reasonable” before outputting final results. While some OCR technologies may perform their own reasonability determination, it may be necessary to further improve upon the quality of the OCR output by performing a text cleaning algorithm on the OCR output. Text cleaning may be implemented by a category of NLP models designed for Language Modeling. Additionally, machine learning algorithms and deep learning algorithms may be utilized to further improve upon the OCR results. Exemplary categories of language models may include: statistical (n-gram), graphical (CRF/HMM), and neural (RNN, LSTM, skipgram, BOW, etc.). While each category of language model may process datasets of particular structure and content differently, the modular nature of the processing pipeline allows the most appropriate language model to be selected based upon the document being processed. For instance, a first language model may be selected if the document is a progress note while a second language model may be selected if the document is a lab result. As another example, a first language model may be selected if the document is from a first institution and a second language model may be selected if the document is from a second institution. As another example, a first language model may be selected if the document is from a first clinician and a second language model may be selected if the document is from a second clinician.
[0101]
In one aspect, due to the frequency of tables, charts, structured headers, and other features in medical documents, neural language models may be preferred. Neural networks for language modeling may be trained over millions of sentences and perform best when trained over text from the same domain as they will encounter in a production system. For example, language models trained over medical/clinical text will perform better in medical-based OCR text cleaning tasks than language models trained over online reviews, news articles, or other generic and freely-available sources. Similarly, language models trained over clinical documents that are specific to a particular disease state, such as cancer, may perform better in medical-based OCR text cleaning tasks upon disease state-related clinical documents than language models trained over clinical documents that are not specific to a particular disease state. By providing a training set having millions of clinical documents that are similar to the documents submitted for OCR, an exemplary language model may be trained over in-domain text that many traditional NLP sources do not have access to, resulting in a more robust language model.
[0102]
Language models may estimate the probability of a given sequence of words or characters (letters, numbers, punctuation, etc.) occurring in a current document based on the frequency of the given sequence of words or characters as they appeared in the original training documents. Language models may identify regions of OCR output that are uncommon in the training text (e.g. “stage iv beast cancer” is an unlikely sequence of words in medical documents). Language models may also identify which words/characters were most likely to have occurred in each position in text, for example, “stage iv ______ cancer” may have a high probability for “lung” and “breast” filling the blank. By combining a probability distribution over words most likely to fill the blank (e.g., in this example cancer sites, but may be medications, dates, diagnosis, treatment results, etc.) and words most likely to be OCR as “beast,” the system may determine that “beast” was most likely “breast” without having to look at the image itself and only relying on linguistic patterns.
[0103]
A probability distribution may be generated by applying a neural network for Named Entity Recognition (NER). For example, individual words may be provided a weighting factor for probability of occurrence across a massive training set. Statistical information may be stored that indicate likely phrases, based off a starting word, and any following words of a phrase. Each word, in turn, may be applied a weight about whether it is a starting word or a following word and the likelihood that the word is part of a phrase or standing alone in the text.
[0104]
In one example, the phrase “stage iv ______ cancer” may be processed. “Stage” may be provided a starting word score of 0.6, a following word score of 0.3, and a standalone score of 0.1 which would account for the entirety of the potential distribution of the word's appearance in the training text. The word “iv” may be provided a starting word score of 0.05, a following score of 0.55, and a standalone score of 0.4. The word “cancer” may be given a starting score of 0.1, a following score of 0.7, and a standalone score of 0.2. A sentence analysis for the exemplary NER may find that because “stage” has a high probability for being a starting word and “iv” has a high probability for being a following word, that “______” may have a higher probability for being a following word that matches “stage iv ______” or “stage iv ______ cancer” in a phrase.
[0105]
Additionally, because “cancer” similarly has a high probability for being a following word, NER may predict that the “______” is either a following word that continues the word beginning at “stage” or may be a beginning word that begins before “cancer”. Because the word “beast” has a beginning word score of 0.1, a following score of 0.2 and a standalone score of 0.7, the model may flag that “beast” does not fit within the expected sequence of words. By comparing similar words, (e.g., breast, feast, rest, roast, wrest, etc.) the NER model may identify that breast has a beginning score of 0.5, a following score of 0.3, and a standalone score of 0.2, making breast fit within two models of the predicted phrases and selecting “breast” to replace “beast” based on the predicted phases alone. The modified phrase then may be further tested, or tested alone using a more generalized probability distribution. For example, the training date may weight the occurrence of words in medical texts. While the word “beast” may rarely occur in an EMR/EHR, (e.g., patient was mauled by unknown beast), “breast” may occur more frequently (e.g., patient expresses concern re: lump in breast, breast cancer, stage iv breast cancer, patient's breast recovered from surgery, etc.), giving “breast” a much higher probability of occurrence weighting than “beast.” As a result, the preprocessing stage 220 may replace “beast” with “breast,” terminate pre-processing, and indicate that the resulting text is reasonable.
[0106]
In an alternate embodiment, a tabular extraction method may be performed across EMR and EHR documents. Tabular extraction involves applying MLA and deep learning algorithms to optimize the OCR process for reports which may have a standardized format. FIG. 7 depicts an exemplary tabular extraction report involving masks 1-3. In this example, a standardized report 710 (e.g., a report used by a physician or group of physicians) may include patient onboarding forms, progress notes, pathology reports, etc. Standardization in this situation may indicate that the reports are presented in a standardized format. For example, a patient onboarding form may have a header which lists patient information such as name, address, symptoms, medications; a progress note may have a table which allows the physician to catalog treatment options recommended to the patient, treatment options which were pursued from a previous visit, and any updates to the status of the patient relating to the treatment options pursued; or a pathology report may include a first section listing a plurality of genetic variants which may be tested in a specific pathology assay and a second section, which may be distinct from the first section, providing sequencing results for each corresponding genetic variant of the first section at a spatially corresponding location to the first section. Furthermore, some reports may feature tables, charts, or other sections which may expand across multiple pages. In this context, an MLA or deep learning neural network (DLNN) may receive a training dataset with annotations for each type of classification that may be performed, and it should be understood that the terms MLA and DLNN are interchangeable throughout this disclosure. Thus, a mention of MLA may include a corresponding DLNN or a mention of DLNN may include a corresponding MLA. A resulting ruleset or neural network may recognize features across a standardized report signifying that a classification may be extracted from a specific section of a particular report. Exemplary metrics and features which may be applied are discussed in more detail below.
[0107]
An exemplary report featuring Sections 1-4 as described in FIG. 7 may be processed by an MLA or DLNN to identify Section 1 as a header which lists patient demographics such as name and date of birth, Section 2 as a listing of genetic variants which are linked to Section 3, Section 3 as a corresponding sequencing result, and Section 4 as a multi-page table summarizing conclusions made from the sequencing results. One exemplary technique to access the data within each of the identified sections may be to generate a mask which outlines the section, apply the mask to the document to extract each section in turn, and then provide the section to an OCR algorithm (e.g., an OCR post-processing optimized to extracting information from the respective section type).
[0108]
Exemplary masks for extracting each of the Sections 1-4 are disclosed in FIG. 7. Mask 1 may identify the bounds of Section 1 (e.g., by identifying a size, shape, and origin point for a mask or by identifying a starting ending point of a rectangular mask). The mask may be 1 for the white region or 0 for the black region. The pixel values of the document then may be multiplied with the corresponding mask value to apply the mask or may be applied in a binary fashion with an AND operation. For example, only the region of the image which is multiplied, or AND operation, with a 1 are kept for OCR; the region that is multiplied, or AND operation, with a 0 is lost. Once the mask is applied, an exemplary optimized OCR post-processing for that section may include a regular expression (e.g., “Name:”, “DOB:”, etc.), and/or a column, row pair(s) which contains key health information (e.g., Column 2, Row 2=Name; Column 2, Row 3=birth date; etc.). In a similar fashion, Section 2 may be extracted next using a second mask and Section 3 may be extracted using a third mask. Sections 2 and 3 may then be supplied to OCR post-processing for linking the results of Section 3 to the enumerated content of Section 2. In an alternate embodiment, Sections 2 and 3 may be extracted at the same time using a combined mask. Section 4 may similarly be extracted at the same time using a combined mask by appending/concatenating the image of page 1 and page 2 together or may be masked individually for each page and the resulting masked sections may be appended/concatenated for post processing.
[0109]
Given enough processing power and time, the MLA or DLNN performing tabular extraction may be implemented as a single training set for all documents, or it may be segmented into one or more layers to improve processing speed of the extraction process and to allow modular improvements to be incorporated without retraining the entire process at once. An exemplary multi-layer extraction may be performed through a template-based approach using a supervised or semi-supervised training set or may be performed through a fully tabular approach using an unsupervised or semi-supervised training set. In an exemplary template-based approach, an MLA may be provided with specific forms containing a standardized layout for each document type commonly found in the EMR or EHR repositories. Additional information on how to identify the form may be provided (e.g., a location/bound to OCR and a text string to match a document name). In another embodiment, the MLA may train to discern how to identify the form and may train to recognize concept candidates in the specific form document provided. The template-based approach may further incorporate the methods and processes of the tabular approach to operate consistent with the below description.
[0110]
In an exemplary tabular approach, a first layer of a multi-layered MLA may process the EMR and EHR documents to identify documents of similar form, layout, or structure. For example, in an EMR of a 1000 documents, the first layer MLA may identify that 400 of the documents follow a first similar form (e.g., FIG. 7 form document), 300 follow a second similar form different from the first, and the remaining documents do not follow a similar form. The MLA may identify one or more of a first subset of masks for the 400 documents of first similar form and may identify one or more of a second subset of masks for the 300 documents of a second similar form (e.g., according to the method as disclosed above). An output of the MLA from the first layer may be a series of masks for each of the identified similar forms (e.g., masks 1-3 from FIG. 7). In another embodiment, the first layer may be broken up into a series of MLA; for example, the processing flow of the first layer may be arranged to divide the tasks of recognizing similar documents to identify a potential template and then process each template to generate masks for each of the identified templates as two or more operations.
[0111]
A second layer of a multi-layered MLA then may utilize the resulting masks from the first layer to process the training data set by identifying regions of interest in a document, identifying a corresponding mask for each identified region of interest, and applying the mask to each document to extract and process the region of interest. An exemplary intermediary processing step of the second layer MLA may identify, for each region of interest, which type of feature the region of interest may contain (e.g., a table, header, graph, etc.). An output of the MLA from the second layer may be a series of masked images for each of the regions of interest and an indicator for the type of feature that exists in the region of interest.
[0112]
In another embodiment, the second layer may be broken up (or consolidated) into a different series of MLA; for example, the processing flow of the second layer may be arranged to divide the tasks of applying each mask to each region of interest and identifying the features of the region of interest into a single operation or further subdivide the processing into further operations.
[0113]
A third layer of a multi-layered MLA may utilize the resulting masked regions of interest and identified features for each region to select an optimized OCR post-processing to extract the text from the region of interest. An exemplary optimized OCR post-processing for a section may include, e.g., a regular expression (e.g., “Name:”, “DOB:”, etc.), or a column-row pair(s) which contain key health information (e.g., Column 2, Row 2=Name; Column 2, Row 3=birth date; etc.). Further post processing of the OCR text may identify that regions of interest are related to one another. For example, a first region of interest may provide a series of gene variants while a second region of interest may provide the expression of those gene variants. In this example, there are a known number of genes, each having a plurality of possible variants, and a query to a molecular pathology service may be initiated to validate whether a recognized gene and variant combination is valid/known or if the combination is actually an unrecognized variant, an OCR introduced error, or if the unknown combination originated from the document. The MLA may detect that regions are related and assign a corresponding concept candidate using both of the regions of interest together. By utilizing relationships between regions of interest in the document, the MLA may provide a more robust classification and provide a more detailed error checking than an algorithm that analyzes portions of the document in isolation.
[0114]
An unrecognized variant is one that has not been identified, sufficiently classified, or expertly-curated by the scientific community. Generally, reports include only known variants and publish updated documentation for any newly supported variants for each test/report offered. An output of the MLA from the third layer may be a collection of concept candidates or classifications for the document/patient. In another embodiment, the third layer may be broken up (or consolidated) into a different series of MLAs; for example, the processing flow of the third layer may be arranged to divide the tasks of text extraction, classification, and identifying relationships between regions of interest into a single operation or further subdivide the processing into further operations.
[0115]
While the instant embodiments are described as including three layers with respective intermediate processing steps, it should be understood that each layer and the included intermediate processing steps may be reordered, combined, or skipped based on the layout of the training documents and configuration of the MLA. Therefore embodiments having fewer or extra layers may be realized without departing from the spirit of the disclosure.
[0116]
Identifying regions of interest, features within the region of interest, or relationships between regions may be performed from the OCR text itself or processed from the image itself prior to OCR. For example, identifying a region of interest may be performed by identifying a border (e.g., black box) that encapsulates some segment of text. In some instances, a border may actually be identified using the negative space (i.e., the white space) around a text by observing that the white space is uniform all around a segment of text and creating a natural boundary. Other distinctions may be observed and utilized as well based on the MLA applied. For example, a table may be identified by observing two more intersecting lines. Similarly, lines segmenting the columns and rows of a table may be solid, dashed, or even extrapolated from the negative space between the words. Additionally or alternatively, OCR post-processing may recognize text which is presented in columns to combine the text in the correct order. Certain features may be identified based on the image of the text prior to OCR. For example, text in all capital letters may be identified by having more straight lines than typical text, bold text may be identified by having thicker letters than typical text, or italicized text may be identified by have angled lines more frequently than typical text. These features of text may be applied in determining regions of interest, related regions, or concept candidates from each region of interest. Furthermore, features of text may be identified by both image details (e.g., pixel density, pixel chroma, etc.) and text (e.g., the OCRed words themselves are shared between documents).
[0117]
Returning to FIG. 1, once the pre-processing stage 120 has completed, the generated OCR output may be stored for later retrieval by the parser stage 130 of the intake pipeline 110. In an alternative embodiment, the preprocessing stage may check in with parser 130 to confirm availability and pass the OCR output to the parser stage directly. Due to the modular nature of the intake pipeline 110, each processing stage may process their respective data without regard for the specific OCR or pre-processing methods. A modular pipeline approach allows the pipeline to swap in and out the most appropriate OCR and pre-processing technologies to improve the results of the overall processing.
[0118]
Sentence splitting is a function of NLP that may be incorporated to parse sentences into meaningful structures. Documents may arrive in either plaintext format (containing all text from the document) or in a structured OCR format (including the text as well as bounding boxes for every character, word, and sometimes paragraph if the model is capable of identifying paragraph regions). Conventional sentence splitting may be implemented by many readily available NLP applications, including, e.g., any of CoreNLP, Spacy, AllenNLP, or NLTK. The system may implement a plurality of NLP applications, and identifying a most appropriate tool for sentence splitting may be depend on the nature of the clinical documents at hand, since clinical documents have a large variety in document layouts and content. Each tool for sentence splitting has advantages for particular types of documents, expected sentence structures, etc. In particular, documents often have headers and footers with useful structured text data, but headers/footers may not be presented in a standard sentence format (e.g., document citation or quote) and may confound certain sentence splitters. Similarly, doctors may use clinical shorthand which conventional NLP tools are not trained to parse; for example, a doctor may write “pt dx luad 2017” to mean “the patient was diagnosed with lung adenocarcinoma in 2017.”
[0119]
These deficiencies in sentence splitting may be overcome by adding models before this stage to identify whether text is semi-structured data, well-formed text, clinical shorthand, uninformative headers/footers, etc. By creating methods for distinguishing between these types of text, the intake pipeline may use specific models to extract information from each type. For example, complex sentences may be broken down into simple sentences by looking for coordination constructs, adjectival clauses, evaluating parataxis, prepositional phrases, etc., by applying phrase-based or syntax-based machine translation approaches. For sentences which are are well-structured (e.g., following traditional grammar and prose), parse trees or deep semantic representations may be utilized. For sentences which are noisy (e.g, structured, but with unclear boundaries), a maximum entropy approach may be utilized. In texts which are very specialized in nature (e.g., medical texts, legal texts, etc.), a tokenization and document segmentation algorithm may be applied. By implementing sentence splitting, the processing pipeline may split the document into sentences for individual parsing.
[0120]
Candidate extraction may be performed using one of above-referenced approaches. For example, one approach may include a symbolic approach that relies on the structure of the sentence. Relying on the structure means that the sentence may be passed into a dependency parser or constituency parser.
[0121]
Constituency-based parse tree text analysis systems may incorporate a list of phrase types that are likely to occur in sentences containing medical concepts. A subset of phrase types from the improved list of concepts may include:
[0122]
CC—Coordinating conjunction, (e.g., and, but);
[0123]
CD—Cardinal number, (e.g., one, two, 1, 2);
[0124]
DT—Determiner, (e.g., a, the);
[0125]
EX—Existential clause, (e.g., there);
[0126]
*FW—Foreign word, (e.g., absentia, nauseam, habeas);
[0127]
IN—Preposition or subordinating conjunction, (e.g., although, because);
[0128]
*JJ—Adjective, (e.g., wet, fast);
[0129]
*JJR—Adjective, comparative, (e.g., -er);
[0130]
*JJS—Adjective, superlative, (e.g., -est);
[0131]
LS—List item marker, (e.g., numbering, bullets);
[0132]
MD—Modal, (e.g., shall, will, might);
[0133]
*NN—Noun, singular or mass, (e.g., cell, cancer);
[0134]
*NNS—Noun, plural, (e.g., cells, fingers);
[0135]
*NNP—Proper noun, singular, (e.g., California, London);
[0136]
*NNPS—Proper noun, plural, (e.g., the Joneses, the Bushes);
[0137]
PDT—Predeterminer, (e.g., both, a lot);
[0138]
POS—Possessive ending, (e.g., 's);
[0139]
PRP—Personal pronoun, (e.g., we, she);
[0140]
PRP$—Possessive pronoun, (e.g., his, hers);
[0141]
*RB—Adverb, (e.g., quite, then);
[0142]
*RP—Particle, (e.g., not, to);
[0143]
*SYM—Symbol, (e.g., @, &);
[0144]
*UH—Interjection, (e.g., ah, oh);
[0145]
*VB—Verb, base form, (e.g., run, inject);
[0146]
*VBD—Verb, past tense, (e.g., ran, injected);
[0147]
*VBZ—Verb, 3rd person singular present, (e.g., runs, injects);
[0148]
WDT—Interrogative determiner, (e.g., what, which);
[0149]
WP—Interrogative pronoun, (e.g., who, whom);
[0150]
WP$—Possessive interrogative pronoun, (e.g., whose);
[0151]
WRB—Interrogative adverb, (e.g., where, how); and
[0152]
.—Period character.
[0153]
While conventional implementations are not optimized for technical texts (i.e., medical texts), the conventional list of phrase types may be augmented to include additional phrase types to optimize sentence splitting for medical-based texts. Such additions have been indicated with an asterisk (*). Conventional implementations that involve constituency-based parse trees include Apache cTAKES (™), Stanford Parser, TensorFlow, and Charniak-Johnson.
[0154]
Turning to FIG. 3, one example of a constituency-based parse tree is depicted. In that example, a constituency-based parse tree may receive a sentence “the patient was given tylenol 50 mg at 11:35 am.” from which a parse tree may be generated. As depicted in the tree of FIG. 3, concepts may be identified (e.g., medical concepts) using different linguistic phrases and parts of speech. An example constituency parser then may generate: (ROOT (S (NP (DT The) (NN patient)) (VP (VBD was) (VP (VBN given) (NP (NP (NNP Tylenol) (CD 50 mg)) (PP (IN at) (NP (CD 11:35 am)))))) ( . . . ))).
[0155]
In this example, phrase types: S, VP, NP, and PP markers are not in the above list. They represent the top-level sentence, verb phrase, noun phrase, and prepositional phrase, respectively. Furthermore, “patient”, “Tylenol”, “Tylenol 50 mg”, “50 mg”, and “11:35 am” may be included in a list of concept candidates (graphically represented as dotted lines around the words in the parse tree). Concept candidates may be determined by noting important phrase types (e.g., NP, CD, etc.) and may be further refined by comparing any associated text against a list of weighted words, whereby words which are weighted above a threshold weight may be presented as concept candidates. For example, the word “patient” may be flagged as a concept candidate, but due to its low weighting factor, may be removed from the candidate list.
[0156]
In another embodiment, an MLA may be utilized to identify concept candidates. An exemplary MLA for identifying concept candidates includes a name entity recognition (NER) model. NERs may be implemented using conditional random fields, convolutional neural networks, attention based neural networks, long short term memory networks, or other neural models.
[0157]
Language models may vary based upon the type of document being processed, (e.g., pathology reports, progress notes, and other EHR and EMR documents, etc.), to optimize the type of information which may be extracted from the documents. For example, a whole document classifier may be applied to a progress note (physician generated report of patient status on each checkup), pathology report, or other MR/EMIR documents to identify a patient's gender, cancer types, or other information that may require verification over one or more documents to provide reliable predictions. For a whole document classification, the text of the entire document may be evaluated before the document as a whole is classified (e.g., male/female, lung/breast cancer, date of birth, etc.). For other types of information, a sequence labeling classifier may be applied to a progress note, pathology report, or EMIR/MR documents to identify, for example, medications taken by a patient, therapies a patient may be undergoing, or other information which may be difficult to extract due to the extensive number of varying entries for each type of class. For a sequence labeling classification, each sentence, or combination of sentences in the document may be evaluated before the document is assigned another classification for identifying a class entry (e.g., a medication or therapy of the patient). The implementation details of an exemplary whole document classifier and sequence labeling classifier are discussed below.
[0158]
In one aspect, a whole document classifier may rely on a training model that has been trained on thousands of medical documents found in EMRs and EHRs of patients. The training data may be provisioned with the parts of speech assigned to words and the true classification for each patient (e.g., male/female, age, ethnicity, etc.). A machine learning algorithm or a neural network may process the training data to generate a rule set or a trained neural network, respectively. In an exemplary rule set, a list of words with corresponding weights may be generated based upon the frequency they appear in text with proper classification vs text without the proper classification. For example, a rule set for determining if a document for a patient is to be classified according to gender may have a list of words including “male”, “man”, “he”, “his”, “testicular”, “prostate”, etc., which are weighted heavily towards identifying gender as male and a list of words including “female”, “woman, “her”, “she”, “breast”, “ovaries”, “ovulation”, “menstrual”, etc., which are weighted heavily towards identifying gender as female.
[0159]
The rule sets may include a vector of, for example, three hundred words and their respective weights, and each rule set may be applied over all words in a sentence to generate weights for every sentence. For example, a sentence “The patient was given prostate exam after he complained about having difficulty urinating in the mornings” may be given a high weight for gender as male because of words “prostate exam” and “he”. After each word of each sentence is processed, each respective sentence may be assigned a sentence vector (e.g., 10% female, 90% male), then each sentence in a document may be processed to assign a document vector, and finally, each document in a patient's EMR or EHR may be processed to assign a patient vector.
[0160]
At each level of granularity, the whole document classifier may be interrupted, for example, if a sufficient level of certainty has been reached or processing was intended to terminate at that level. For example, if a document has been determined to have a high incidence of accuracy because a table on page 3 of a document may always return the correct gender for the patient, then the algorithm may identify that high accuracy has been provided for the document based on the one sentence of that document and stop processing a gender classification at the sentence level vector for that patient. Furthermore, a patient level vector may not be generated if a document level vector has reached a certain threshold of certainty (e.g., 95%), or if, for example, only one document is being processed.
[0161]
FIG. 4 provides a visual representation of word weightings for a sentence containing “The patient was given Tylenol 50 mg at 11:35 am.” At the word level, “the”, “was”, “given”, and “at”, may be given low weights, “patient” and “11:35 am” may be given medium weights, and “Tylenol” and “50 mg” may be given high weights. As a result, the overall sentence may be classified with a high weight (e.g., 95%) that medication the patient has taken includes Tylenol 50 mg. For this example, because such a high confidence value is determined, the processing may not need to continue to evaluate other sentences in the document to determine that the patient did indeed take Tylenol 50 mg, but each sentence will be processed to determine if other concepts are identified (e.g., to identify gender, other medications, other treatments, or demographic information). In this example, even though only the medication concept is given a high weight, each of the identified concept candidates may be retained for the next stage of the intake pipeline for further processing; alternatively, those identified concept candidates may be dropped from the candidate list.
[0162]
In some circumstances, a high level of confidence may not be available. For example, a patient who has undergone a gender reassignment surgery may have documents with a high level of confidence for one gender before surgery and a high confidence for another gender after surgery, or a document for a patient of a different gender may have been misfiled in the current patient's file. When a level of certainty lies below a threshold value (e.g., 90%), the whole document classifier may output the highest level vector calculated identifying, for example, a 60% confidence male and 40% confidence female. The output may also include one or more identifiers for which document, which section of which document, which sentence, or even which word from which the confidence values were calculated. In another embodiment, no prediction may be generated when the confidence value is below the threshold. In still other embodiments, documents which have contention in a prediction may be flagged, a true determination of classification may be obtained, and the documents and the true classification may be provided to a training engine which may retrain the rule set or neural network to further improve accuracy.
[0163]
As discussed above, in another aspect, a sequence labeling classifier may be implemented. An MLA or neural network may be trained to generate a rule set identifying words and word sequences which are likely to identify concept candidates. Such concept candidates may include stand-alone words such as “patient,” “age,” or “gender,” with a high stand-alone rating. It should be noted that these words may not be commonly coupled with other words in medical text but may still have some word couplings (e.g., under age). Other concept candidates may include words which are commonly linked to other words in a medical text. Words which commonly begin a multi-word concept include “breast” (e.g., breast cancer, breast reduction, breast augmentation, breast surgery) and “stage” (e.g., stage I cancer, stage II cancer, etc.). Other such words may include “high” (e.g., high blood pressure), “low” (e.g., low cholesterol), or “heart” (e.g., heart attack, heart failure). Words which commonly begin a multi-word phrase may feature a high beginning score and a medium stand-alone score. Intermediary words in a multi-word phrase (e.g., ______ cancer, ______ cell, ______ failure) are words which may have a high intermediary score and a medium stand-alone score). For example, each word in a sentence may be assigned a value for the likelihood that the word is a beginning of a multi-word phrase (e.g., a “B” value), an intermediary of a multi-word phrase (e.g. an “I” value), and a standalone word (e.g., an “O” value), and then each word or collection of words may be evaluated to identify clinical concepts.
[0164]
Turning to FIG. 5, a sequence labeling classifier may provide a “BIO” score for each word, where a BIO score (10, 30, 60) would mean that the associated word is the first word in a multi-word phrase in about 10% of its occurrences in the training set, an intermediary word in a multi-word phrase in about 30% of its occurrences in the training set, and a stand-alone word in about 60% of its occurrences in the training set. For example, the word “the” almost always precedes another word and occasionally is an intermediary word of a multi-word phrase, so may be provided a BIO score of (90, 10, 0). “The” may also be considered an extraneous word, despite almost always preceding other words of importance, so it may be provided a BIO score of (0, 10, 90) to prevent processing, “patient” may be provided a BIO score of (5, 20, 75), and “was” may be provided a BIO score of (0, 0, 100). The sequence labeling model may begin processing the sentence at the first word, i.e., “the,” and then note a high incidence of that word being the beginning value of a multi-word phrase (i.e., in the first incidence where BIO score is (90, 10, 0)), process the second word “patient” to note a high incidence of being an intermediary or stand-alone word, and process the third word “was” to note a high incidence of being a stand-alone word. By recognizing a potential beginning of a multi-word concept, a potential intermediary of a multi-word concept, and a distinct non-multi-word entry, the sequence labeling model may identify a first multi-word concept. Therefore the sequence labeling model may indicate “the patient” as a likely candidate concept for the multi-word label and “patient” as a likely candidate concept for the stand-alone word label.
[0165]
Processing may continue word-by-word until another stand-alone word (B, I, or O labels) or multi-word (BIII . . . labels) are detected. In the example of FIG. 5, another multi-word phrase may be detected at “Tylenol 50 mg,” and concepts “Tylenol” and “Tylenol 50 mg” may be generated. A final concept may be generated at “11:35 am.”
[0166]
A sequence labeling classifier may be able to identify labels with a higher accuracy than a parse tree by linking words together through their labels (e.g., BI, BII, BIII, etc.) to identify multi-word concepts (e.g., heart attack, stage IV cancer, medial tibial stress syndrome, etc.) as the totality of their concept rather than each of the words in multi-word concept.
[0167]
The number of candidate concepts which may be extracted may be needlessly large. For example, in patient file with thousands of documents, a concept candidate for breast cancer may occur hundreds of times, a concept for lung cancer may occur tens of times, and a concept for liver cancer may only occur once. It may be useful to filter/rank the mentions of each concept candidate to reduce repetition in the following stages in the pipeline. For concept candidates which may be consolidated (e.g., mentions of breast cancer for diagnosis) the concept candidate may be reduced to a single concept with a count field in the hundreds. Furthermore, if concept candidates are competing for the same field, the concept candidate may be coupled with a reliability index based upon the frequency of the concept candidate occurring in relationship to the others (e.g., 200 mentions of breast cancer, 13 mentions of lung cancer, and 1 mention of liver cancer may be processed to a 200/214 reliability index that the patient has breast cancer). The highest ranked competing concept candidate may be preserved along with a reliability index, or a consolidated report of the most frequent competing concept candidates may be preserved along with their count values and/or reliability index.
[0168]
Using any of the above methods, candidate extraction generates a plurality of candidate concepts which may be evaluated in the following stage for entity linking.
[0169]
Returning to FIG. 1, the entity linking pipeline stage 140 receives/retrieves the candidate phrases as a list and may process each candidate to identify any links between the phrases and known entities (e.g., the enumerated list of medical drugs discussed above). Entity linking is the task of determining whether a candidate concept (i.e., phrase) is a relevant clinical concept. Relevancy may be determined by the presence of the candidate concept in any medical dictionary or the universal dictionary described above. Relevancy may also be determined based on proximity to a concept candidate hit. For example, a time “11:35 am” may not result in a hit in any dictionary as a medical concept. However, certain medical concepts, such as medications, may fall within an abstraction category such as treatment. A treatment may have fields such as treatment type (i.e., the medicine) and date and time of treatment (i.e., 11:35 am). By considering proximity to other concept candidates, key information may be retained even if the concept may not exist in the database. The retained candidate concept may not be classified as a linked entity, but may be associated with the linked entity for abstraction purposes.
[0170]
Within the entity linking pipeline stage 140, the list of concept candidates generated in the previous pipeline stage may be provided to a dictionary lookup for matches. Conventional dictionary lookup tools may include Elasticsearch, Solr, Algolia, or Sphinx. In one aspect, a direct dictionary lookup may not always result in a database hit (i.e., the candidate is in the database) because of typographical errors, OCR errors, shorthand, or other confounding factors. In those situations, candidates which are not an exact match may still be found in the database by applying fuzzy matching logic. For example, the entity linking pipeline stage 140 may expect to find matches for “Tylnol” and “Tylnol 50 mg” because exemplary queries allow for “fuzzy matching,” which will correct potential typographical errors or OCR errors that occur in “Tylenol.”
[0171]
Fuzzy matching may be implemented by an approximate string matching algorithm. For example, in conventional string matching, a string must exactly match, character for character, with a reference string in order to yield a positive match result. In fuzzy string matching a string is still matched character by character; however, for each mismatch in character, operations may be performed to elicit a match. For example, a mismatching character may be deleted, and the next character considered for a hit, which would account for having an extraneous character in a word, a character may be inserted at the mismatching character to provide a match to allow a match to occur even if a character was omitted, a character may be substituted at the mismatching character to allow a match even if the wrong character was inserted, or a character may be transposed at the mismatching character. For each mismatch operation that is performed, a counter may increment to track the number of errors allowed. In an embodiment, the number of errors may be capped to restrict the flexibility of the fuzzy searching algorithm (i.e., only three mismatch corrections allowed before no match may be identified). Other embodiments may adjust the threshold based upon the length of the word to allow longer words more mismatches than shorter words. For example, if a three letter word is allowed three mismatch operations, then a fuzzy string matching algorithm may generate matches for thousands of concepts from 1-6 characters.
[0172]
Fuzzy matching is structured around the text concepts included in the above enumerated list or the UMLS, including metadata fields CUI (the UMLS unique ID) and AUI (dictionary-specific unique ID), so that an exhaustive search may be performed for all medical concepts. The dictionary search engine may also return metadata about the specific entry detected (e.g. universal ID assigned in the above enumerated list or the UMLS), which is useful for understanding Tylenol as a medical concept and not just the correct spelling of a drug. At the end of text normalization, some of the extracted candidates may have zero matches but others may have many matches. For example, there are many versions of Tylenol throughout the UMLS database because of the number of dictionaries represented therein. Fortunately, the CUI (the UMLS uuid) provides a generalization to join similar concepts, which reduces the number of matches from one for each potential database to the number of unique CUIs represented. Not all concepts can be simplified so succinctly, though. For example, “Tylenol” is a different concept than “Tylenol 50 mg”, which is a dosage-specific version of “Tylenol”. Any ambiguation from “Tylenol 50 mg” to “Tylenol” would effectively constitute a loss of information.
[0173]
Fuzzy matching may also apply on a word-by-word basis rather than a letter-by-letter basis. For example, a concept candidate may include the phrase “needle biopsy.” An entity matching search may identify entities linked to, for example an exact match (“needle biopsy”), a reordered match (“biopsy needle”), or phrase matches of “needle aspiration biopsy of lung” or “breast needle biopsy.” Such entity matches may be derived using the same fuzzy matching operations above (deletion, insertion, transcription, etc), but on the whole word rather than each individual character. Furthermore, in still another embodiment, both fuzzy matching on a character by character basis and word by word basis may be applied concurrently to generate entity matches. When operating as an ontology-directed system that specializes in abstracting patient from fields from a particular ontology, dictionary lookups may be relaxed to allow for wider inferences. This may include allowing more wildcards into the phrase search or other adjustments to allow for broader lookups. When operating as a system having aspects that are ontology agnostic for performing recognition across multi-discipline medical records, dictionary lookups may be more strict, allowing less flexibility or wild characters for matching.
[0174]
Certain features, such as the TNM Classification of Malignant Tumors (TNM) is a globally recognized standard for classifying the extent of spread of cancer, must be preempted from fuzzy matching. TNM is a notation system that describes the stage of a cancer, which originates from a solid tumor, using alphanumeric codes: T describes the size of the original (primary) tumor and whether it has invaded nearby tissue; N describes nearby (regional) lymph nodes that are involved; and M describes distant metastasis (spread of cancer from one part of the body to another). For example, T may be designated a value to estimate size or direct extent of the primary tumor (Tx: tumor cannot be assessed, Tis: carcinoma in situ, T0: no evidence of tumor, T1, T2, T3, T4: size and/or extension of the primary tumor), N may be designated based upon the degree of spread to regional lymph nodes (Nx: lymph nodes cannot be assessed, N0: no regional lymph nodes metastasis, N1: regional lymph node metastasis present; at some sites, tumor spread to closest or small number of regional lymph nodes, N2: tumor spread to an extent between N1 and N3 (N2 is not used at all sites), N3: tumor spread to more distant or numerous regional lymph nodes (N3 is not used at all sites), and M may be designated based upon the presence of distant metastasis (M0: no distant metastasis, M1: metastasis to distant organs (beyond regional lymph nodes)). Exemplary TNM codes may be “pT1 pN0 M0” or “pT4 pN2 M1”. Due to the importance of the TNM codes being parsed precisely as they appear to maintain the TNM values, fuzzy matching may be disabled for stop words relating to TNM values, for example, “t0”, “T1a”, “t3”, so that fuzzy matching does not change a “t1” into a “t2” to match a database Entity. NLP may be combined with restricted fuzzy matching in certain embodiments to correct OCR errors related to TNM codes. For example, a NLP model may detect that TNM is being referenced by detecting the presence of a T, N, and M code; however, classification may fail due to an OCR of “pT0” with “pTo”, by allowing a restricted fuzzy matching of only similar characters (e.g., an “o” for an “0”), TNM codes may be maintained while still correcting for errors.
[0175]
Due to the large volume of concept candidates that may exist from the previous pipeline stage, merely searching for a match and terminating the search upon finding a single match may provide a substantial benefit in reducing the processing time spent crawling the relevant databases/dictionaries. However, the best matches may not be the first matches, and if there are multiple matches within a group (e.g., synonyms which are off by a single word to the concept candidate), it may be necessary to pick the match which has the lowest fuzzy “score” (i.e., the value that counts the number of errors corrected to generate the fuzzy match). If there are still ties (e.g., there are two matches of equal fuzzy “score”), then the tied matches may be sorted based on length of characters or length of words (e.g., shorter matches with less words/characters score higher than longer matches with more words/characters). Any unresolved matches may then be selected randomly or according to a first-in, first-out FIFO queue of matches, such that the first match is selected.
[0176]
Templates, Fuzzy Text Matching & Regular Expressions:
[0177]
Many reports within EMRs and EHR are provided in consistent formatting across institutions for periods of time (e.g., patient intakes may share the same form for a period of time until the next revision). Relying on this consistency, the system may consider a case where a hospital system prints its pathology reports using the same template and had a different template for any documents that were created before Jan. 1, 2001. If Pathology Reports from this hospital system are identified as frequent documents received in EMR and EHR, optimizations may be applied to processing to create methods for extracting information from known locations within the shared templates of each respective form. An exemplary method (e.g., the method described above) may also include multiple parts, as follows:
[0178]
Document classification: The system may generate an image or text classification model to: determine whether a given document belongs to one of the templates that may be extracted from, assign the document an identifier for linking the document to the template, use the identifier to look up the classification model optimized for the document, and classify the document. Exemplary template-based approaches and tabular approaches are discussed above.
[0179]
Regular Expressions: The system may identify anchor strings regularly occurring in text that identify where key health information may reside. For example, the system may recognize that “DOB” is a string to search for dates of birth and “Pathological Diagnosis” may be a header to a section that provides concepts for linking to a pathological diagnosis.
[0180]
Fuzzy Text Matching: As discussed above, the system may apply a fuzzy search algorithm to a regular expression in order to allow the application of regular expressions to words which have OCR errors, typographical errors, or are otherwise confounded.
[0181]
Templates: Once a document has been classified, and regions of text may be determined in advance, an image classification model may leverage the predetermined region locations to identify those same regions within a document image to extract key health information (clinical concepts). For example, document headers may often be visually structured for presenting information to the reader, and that known visual structuring may contain useful demographic information. By identifying a document header, processing may include rotating/skewing the image to line up the template, removing image irregularities, OCR of the text, and applying regular expressions to extract any information from the standardized format. Any concepts extracted from the template may be provided to the entity linking pipeline 140 and may be processed to identify any respective matching concepts for linking.
[0182]
Returning to FIG. 1, in another embodiment, entity normalization (e.g., at step 150) may be applied to determine which of the entity linked concepts of the previous stage are relevant to abstraction and, if they are relevant, which encoding schema may be applied to encapsulate the abstraction completely. For example, “Tylenol” and “Tylenol 50 mg” may match in the dictionary from UMLS with a concept for “amphetamine”. It may be necessary to explore the relationships between the identified concept from the UMLS dictionary and any other concepts of related dictionaries or the above universal dictionary. Though visualization is not required, these relationships may be visualized through a graph-based logic for following links between concepts that each specific integrated dictionary may provide.
[0183]
FIG. 6 is an exemplary ontological graph database for viewing links between different dictionaries (databases of concepts) that may be interlinked through a universal dictionary lookup in order to carry out the normalizing stage 150 in FIG. 1. Conventional ontological graph databases may include GraphT, Neo4j, ArangoDB, Orient, Titan, or Flockdb. The following references to dictionaries and databases are for illustrative purposes only and may not reflect accurately the concepts/synonyms, entities, or links represented therein. Links between two concepts may represent specific known relationships between those two concepts. For example, “Tylenol” may be linked to “acetaminophen” by a “trade name” marker, and may be linked to “Tylenol 50 mg” by a “dosage of” marker. There may also be markers to identify taxonomic “is a” relationships between concepts. “Is a” markers provide relationships between over some clinical dictionaries (e.g., SNOMEDCT_US, Campbell W S, Pederson J, etc.) to establish relationships between each database with the others. For example, we can follow “is a” relationships from “Tylenol”, “Tylenol 50 mg”, or “acetaminophen” to the concept for a generic drug. Such a relationship may not be available for another concept, for example, a match to the dictionary for UMLS to “the patient” or “patient” may not have a relationship to a medication dictionary due to the conceptually distinct natures of each entity. Relationships may be found between drugs that have the same ingredients or are used to treat the same illnesses.
[0184]
Other relationships between concepts may also be represented. For example, treatments in a treatment dictionary may be related to other treatments of a separate treatment database through relationships describing the drugs administered or the illness treated. Entities (e.g., MMSL #3826, C0711228, RXNORM # . . . , etc) are each linked to their respective synonyms, (e.g., Tylenol 50 mg, Acetaminophen, Mapap, Ofirmev, etc.). Links between concepts (i.e., synonyms), may be explored to effectively normalize any matched candidate concept to an RXNORM entity.
[0185]
Returning to FIG. 6, the concept candidate “Tylenol 50 mg” may have a hit in the National Library of Medicine Database MMSL. In the preceding stage of the pipeline, “Tylenol 50 mg” may have been linked to the Entity MMSL #3826 as an identifier for the “Tylenol 50 mg” concept in MMSL. The linked Entity, MMSL #3826, may reside in a database which is not a defined database of authority, or, for document classification purposes, MMSL #3826 may not provide a requisite degree of certainty or provide a substantial reference point needed for document/patient classification. Through entity normalization, it may be necessary to explore links to MMSL #3826 until a reference entity of sufficient quality is identified. For example, the RXNORM database may be the preferred authority for identifying a prescription when classifying prescriptions a patient has taken because it provides the most specific references to drugs which are approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA).
[0186]
Other authorities may be selected as the normalization authority based upon any number of criteria. The exact string/phrase “Tylenol 50 mg” may not have a concept/entity match to the RXNORM database and the applied fuzzy matching may not generate a match with a high degree of certainty. By exploring the links from MMSL #3826, it may be that concept “Tylenol Caplet Extra Strength, 50 mg” is a synonym to “Tylenol 50 mg” in the MMSL database. Furthermore, concept “Tylenol Caplet Extra Strength, 50 mg” may also be linked to Entity C0711228 of the UMLS database. By exploring the synonyms to “Tylenol 50 mg” through Entity MMSL #3826, the concept candidate may be linked to the UMLS Entity C0711228. However, the UMLS Entity C0711228 is not the preferred authority for linking prescriptions, so further normalization steps may be taken to link to the RXNORM database. Entity C0711228 may have synonym “Tylenol 50 MG Oral Tablet” which is also linked to RXNORM #5627. RXNORM #5627 may be a normalization endpoint (i.e., once RXNORM #5627 has been identified, normalization may conclude); however, RXNORM #5627 may also represent the Tylenol specific brand name rather than the generic drug name. A degree of specificity may be placed for each source of authority (i.e., normalization authority) identifying criteria which may be desired for any normalized entity. For example, a medication may need to provide both a brand drug name and a generic drug name. Links in the RXNORM database may be explored to identify the Entity for the generic drug version of Tylenol. For example, RXNORM #5627 may have an “ingredient of” link to RXNORM #2378 which has a “has tradename” link to RXNORM #4459 with concept acetaminophen. RXNORM #4459 is the Entity within the RXNORM database which represents the generic drug for Tylenol 50 mg and is selected as the normalized Entity for identifying a prescription in the classification of prescriptions a patient has taken. In this aspect, normalization may first identify an Entity in the dictionary of authority (as defined above) and may further normalize within the dictionary of authority to a degree of specificity before concluding normalization.
[0187]
For each field of medical data that is abstracted in the intake pipeline, reasonable reference points for normalization may be identified (e.g., RXNORM for medications, SnoMed for cancers) and which types of relational links may be traversed from matched concepts in the fields of medical data. As described above, medical data may include fields of patient demographics (e.g., patient name, date of birth, gender, ethnicity, date of death, address, smoking status, diagnosis dates, personal medical history, family medical history, etc.), clinical diagnoses (e.g., date of initial diagnosis, date of metastatic diagnosis, cancer staging, tumor characterization, tissue of origin, etc.), treatments and outcomes (e.g., therapy groups, medications, surgeries, radiotherapy, imaging, adverse effects, associated outcomes, and corresponding dates, etc.), and Genetic Testing and Labs (e.g. genetic testing, performance scores, lab tests, pathology results, prognostic indicators, and corresponding dates, etc.). Each of the fields (e.g., address, cancer staging, medications, genetic testing, etc.) may also have a plurality of subfields. For example, address may have subfields for type of use (e.g., personal, business), street, city, state, zip, country, and a start or end date (i.e., date that residency at the address begins or expires). Genetic testing may have subfields for the date of genetic testing, testing provider used, test method (e.g., genetic sequencing method, gene panel), gene results (e.g., included genes, variants, expressions, etc.), tumor mutational burden, and microsatellite instability. For medications, links as described above, including “has tradename” and “dosage of” relationships from any entity links may be traversed determine if there is a relevant drug related to the candidate concept.
[0188]
In another embodiment, a linked Entity may be received from the entity linking stage of the intake pipeline. A query may be generated to search over an ontological graph database having relationships including meta-synonymous links, synonymous relationships between links, and other relationships. For example, a linked entity may resolve to Ductal Carcinoma In Situ (DCIS) in the SnoMed dictionary. SnoMed may be the preferred authority for cancers due to degree of comprehension and detailed concepts included in the dictionary, expert opinion identifies SnoMed as the best dictionary, or because SnoMed has the most comprehensive relationships between other dictionaries, is well established, and meets requirements set forth by the institutions managing the EMR/WHR. A desired degree of specificity may have selection criteria for normalized endpoints. For example, the selection criteria of a cancer type may include an Entity which identifies 1) the cancer site (i.e., where the cancer is located in the patient) and 2) the cancer type. An entity identifying DCIS may be limited to identifying the cancer type, but may not satisfy the cancer site selection criteria and SnoMed may be searched to identify a normalized Entity which satisfies both criteria.
[0189]
Normalizing DCIS may include navigating “is a” relationship links within the SnoMed database until an Entity is reached which identifies the cancer site as breast. For example, DCIS may be a tier three entity which “is a” specific type of cancer under “breast cancer.” Breast cancer may be a tier two entity which “is a” specific type of cancer under the root “cancer.” Breast cancer may have a “has finding site” relationship to breast, which satisfies the selection criteria for identifying the cancer site (i.e., breast) and the cancer type (i.e., breast cancer). However, to prevent loss of information, both the DCIS Entity and Breast Cancer Entity may be retained for the normalized Entity to aide in Entity Structuring described below. In SnoMed, relationships between cancers are structured such that there is a finite number of jumps that “is a” links may traverse. Upon each traversal, an “is a” link may either result in a leaf node (traversed down), a terminal node (cancer with no further classification), or to the root (i.e., cancer). Traversal may stop at the first “is a” link which is encoded as a terminal node (e.g., based on the tier as described above, based off a relationship that exists in the node as described above, or that is predetermined as a terminal node). Other relationships which may identify terminal nodes include, for example, in a medicine dictionary, Term Types “Ingredient” or “Preferred term” (e.g., TTY: GN for Generic Drug Name and TY:BD/BN/FBN for Branded Drug/Name or Foreign Brand Name, etc.), or the degree of specificity may be based off of relationships (e.g, “is a generic”, “is a brand name”).
[0190]
Normalization queries are constructed to prevent out of bound searches, surprious results, infinite searches, and other logic that prevents a query from completing. A representative normalization query of a medication may include:
MATCH p=(start:DICT {code: “DICT # AUI” }})-[:has_tradename|
tradename_of*0 . . . 3]-(end:DICT)-[:has_umls_aui]->
(aui2)<-[:has_aui]-(descendant_cui)
RETURN DISTINCT descendant_cui.cui AS match_cui, length(p) AS graph_distance
[0195]
This query may return CUI' s related to concepts which are linked to ingredients identified in the medications terminal node list by up to 3 trade names or generic names. In one aspect, a limit on the number of links which may be traversed and included in the query results may be included to reduce computational constraints (e.g., processor and memory reservations). Queries may be optimized to provide both generic and trade name normalization endpoints, for example, by not specifying or restricting the directionality of the [:has_tradename|tradename_of] portion of the query. Alternatively, queries may be directionally limited to only traverse [:has_tradename|tradename_of] in a specified direction to limit the results which are generated as desired. A terminal node entry for an ingredient to be encoded to in the medications valueset and may be encoded by including each respective code's dictionary (DICT above) and AUI into the query so that when a new entity is traversed, the AUI may be referenced with the list of terminal nodes.
[0196]
A representative normalization query for a cancer type may include:
[0197]
MATCH p=(cui:umls_cui)-[:has_aui]->(aui:umls_aui)<-
[has_umls_aui]-(descendant:DICT)-[:isa*0 . . . ]->
(:DICT {{code: “DICT # AUI” }})
[0200]
RETURN DISTINCT cui.cui AS match_cui, length(p)−2 AS graph_distance
[0201]
This query may return CUI's related to concepts which are linked as “is a” descendants of a given code (i.e., node). A terminal node entry for a cancer type may be encoded in the cancer valueset and may be encoded as a primary diagnosis by including each representative code's dictionary (DICT above) and AUI into the query so that when a new entity is traversed, the AUI may be referenced with the list of terminal nodes. For cancer type queries, a return value may include the graph_distance of the path, which provides a qualifier for how many “is a” nodes are in the path between the descendant and the queried code. After processing queries for each node in the primary diagnosis valueset, there may exist many descendants that point to multiple parents. The resulting query response of potential matches may be further curated according to the following logic:
[0202]
If a descendant D is generated by two ancestors A and B, but A and B are not descendants of each other, then keep the mapping of D to both A and B; OR
[0203]
If a descendant D is generated by two ancestors A and B, but A is also a descendant of B, then discard the mapping of D to B (because A is a nearer ancestor).
[0204]
In another embodiment, a concept candidate may be explored by more than one query relating to the concept. For example, a concept candidate may be explored/followed until a concept with a related structure (as described in FIG. 2) is linked/normalized, then each of the associated fields are queried in turn (Entity structuring is disclosed in more detail, below).
[0205]
An aspect of query generation may include tailoring queries to avoid spurious searches. For example, by recognizing directional relationships which preserve the integrity of the source node, queries which prevent erroneous destination nodes from being reached are preferred. For example, normalizing the Brand Name Entity for Tylenol may include traversing the “ingredient of” relationship that Tylenol has. In one direction, drugs for which Tylenol is considered an ingredient of may be safely explored. However, in the other direction, the ingredients of Tylenol may be explored. An ingredient which is shared between Tylenol and another drug may be linked by, for example, magnesium stearate which is shared between Tylenol and Advil. A generic drug ibuprofen may then result from an unbounded query which does not restrict the traversal of “ingredient of” fields to prevent spurious drug hopping.
[0206]
It may be advantageous to precalculate the results from frequent query searches and cache the query results for speed. Caching precomputed queries represent a tradeoff for the flexibility of results with the speed at which they may be generated. Caches may include a node hop count value that is used to resolve ties for least number of hops. Caching may be performed at the Entity Link stage and the Entity Normalization Stage. In a simplified representation, an Entity Linking Cache may include fields such as: Name of Concept Candidate, Dictionary Candidate Located In, and CUID. It may further be advantageous to identify a structure category and corresponding fields based from the identified CUID. Normalization may be directed to generate results which relate to the fields of the structure category identified. In another simplified representation, an Entity Normalization Cache may include fields such as: CUID, Medical Concept Structure, and normalized response for concept (Normalized CUID). Additional fields for either table may include: graph distance (i.e., number of hops), preferred dictionary CUID, pre-defined entries (e.g., names, regions, categories), inferred structure entries (e.g., diagnosis site, generic drug name), language of text, match type (e.g., exact, exact but letter case mismatch, fuzzy matched, etc.), text type (i.e., TTY, described above), or other fields.
[0207]
Normalized Entities may be further normalized to reduce known variance in results. For example, in a cancer type normalization, there may be numerous normalization endpoints which reference breast cancer in one form or another that match the selection criteria of the normalization algorithm. A post-processing step to the normalization may be applied which identifies, for example, when a cancer site is designated as breast, and adjusts the final result such that all entries with a breast cancer site share the same cancer site code and same spelling “breast”. Other normalized results may include each main cancer site (brain, lung, liver, ovary, bone marrow, etc.), a predetermined catch-all for unknown sites, or known codes which are irrelevant to the normalization results and may be filtered.
[0208]
Returning to FIG. 1, the Entity structuring pipeline 160 compiles each of the normalized concepts identified in the previous stage. However, given thousands of pages of documentation within an EMIR/MR for a patient, the number of normalized entities that may be identified and resolved during processing may number in the hundreds of thousands. The abstraction process as described above with reference to FIG. 1, may display information about a normalized concept by providing various identified and populated fields. For example, with reference to the sentence “The patient was given Tylenol 50 mg at 10:35 am,” the entity structuring pipeline 160 may encode the following fields:
[0209]
Text: The entirety of the text (i.e., “The patient was given Tylenol 50 mg at 10:35 am.”).
[0210]
Medication: Identifying any medication mentioned in the text (i.e., Tylenol). Medications may be brand name or generic name. This field does not include information about the dosage or method of administration.
[0211]
Active Ingredient: Identifying the active ingredients (i.e., acetaminophen) of the medication mentioned using a list such as a search table linking drug names to their active ingredients.
[0212]
Dosage & Dosage Units: The dosage (i.e., 50 mg) associated with the medication mentioned. In the above example, identifying that the dosage as 50 mg is fairly straightforward by reading the sentence, but clinical data is often printed in tables with a variety of structures that are not easy to infer. As such, normalizing the dosage and dosage units by separating value 50 into the dosage field and string “mg” or by selecting a known value entry for the milligram units within a list may be preferable.
[0213]
Document & Page: The document and page where the text is found (i.e., Progress Note 01_01_01.pdf and page 3).
[0214]
UMLS_CUI: The CUI field (i.e., C0711228) of the UMLS entry corresponding to the medication. The UMLS is a list of medical concepts and the UMLS_CUI refers to the CUI field, which is UMLS' universal identifier. UMLS is comprised of a number of independently maintained clinical dictionaries and ontologies (e.g. those for cancer diagnosis & treatment, dentistry, veterinarian medicine, etc.). That is, the CUIs are universal to UMLS, and there is only one CUI for Tylenol across all of its constituent dictionaries that enables UMLS to unite all of these disparate sources.
[0215]
UMLS_AUI: The AUI field (i.e., RXNORM #4459) is the dictionary-specific identifying code of the UMLS. Where the CUI is universal, and has the same entry across all included sources, the AUI for Tylenol will have different AUIs for each dictionary that it has an entry in.
[0216]
Various fields, e.g., UMLS_CUI, UMLS_AUI, Medication, and Active Ingredient may each be determined through the entity normalization process by exploring the links to each of the Entities. The other fields, e.g., dosage, dosage units, date/time administered, document, and page may not be determined through the normalization process. Instead, these other fields are provided to a Relational Extraction MLA for extracting this information from the surrounding context or document information (e.g., name, number of pages, etc). For example, a document named Progress Note 01_01_01 may be presumed to have a date of Jan. 1, 2001. Other concept candidates from the document may be referenced to validate the date/time or select the date absent any other validating/corroborating information. For example, the time 11:35 am may have been provided as a concept candidate spatially near the “Tylenol 50 mg” concept candidate. The Relational Extraction MLA may then identify 11:35 am as the time the medication was administered based on the concept candidate time being the next concept candidate in the list, a spatial proximity of the concept candidate, a new application of NLP to the OCRed text string, or any combination thereof. Additionally, a page number may be identified, for example, in a document that has 5 pages by referencing the page number by performing an OCR of text at the bottom of the page or may be extrapolated by counting the number of pages before the page the concept candidate was extracted from. Once each field of the medical data is identified through either the normalization process or the structuring process and the relational extraction MLA, the patient/document may be ready to be classified according to each normalized and structured entity.
[0217]
Normalization of linked entities may be provided across the entire feature set detailed herein. The following examples are provided for illustrative purposes.
[0218]
In one example, a patient record may contain the sentence: “Patient reports feeling queasy, unusually tired, and bleeding in the mouth since being placed on amithopterin, but says that these side effects are mild in severity.” Abstraction may include generating the following results:
Concept	Matched	Canonical	UMLS	Concept
Text	Type	Concept	Concept	CUI	Name
feeling	Adverse	MDR#10037730	MDR#10028813	C0027497	Nausea
queasy	Event
unusually	Adverse	MDR#10043890	MDR#10016256	C0015672	Fatigue
tired	Event
bleeding in	Adverse	CHV#0000008993	MDR#10030980	C0029163	Oral
the mouth	Event				Hemorrhage
amithopterin	Medication	SNOMEDCT_US#387381009	RXNORM#6851	C0025677	Methotrexate
[0219]
A text match for feeling queasy may be a hit to a first adverse reaction concept. However, a concept matching a colloquial phrase may not satisfy a predetermined degree of specificity for adverse reactions. For example, the concept matching the phrase feeling queasy may be a child concept of nausea, a formal medical term that encompasses the colloquial phrase feeling queasy. In such an example, the parent concept nausea may satisfy the predetermined degree of specificity for adverse reactions because it resides at a higher level of the adverse reaction ontology tree or contains metadata identifying it as a formal medical term. Such a predetermined degree of specificity may be based on the number of branches from the root of the tree, or a metadata of the ontology indicating a level of specificity such as a status as parent node, a node having formality, a node with no other parents, or a node defining a set of characteristics of the child nodes. In this particular case, the preferred concept Nausea may also be a technical term for the condition and may the parent concept of numerous synonymous, less technical or more ambiguous terms, including: “feeling queasy”, “feeling sick”, “feeling bilious”. Each child term may be assigned the same parent entity to ensure cohesive abstraction across all patient records.
[0220]
For many preferred concepts it may be advantageous to encode one or more child phrases to a resource for maintaining standardized parent concepts. In some embodiments, standardized concepts may have many synonyms in another vocabulary and the encompassing vocabulary may be selected as the preferred vocabulary due to having the most complete coverage for the concepts relating to the abstraction purpose. For example, it may be advantageous to assign RXNORM as the preferred vocabulary for medications when the abstraction purpose has records of cancer patients because it has the broadest coverage for the concept of medications most relevant to the cancer domain.
[0221]
In another example, a text match for unusually tired may be a hit to a first adverse reaction concept. However, a concept matching a colloquial phrase may not satisfy a predetermined degree of specificity for adverse reactions. For example, the concept matching the phrase unusually tired may be a child concept of fatigue, a formal medical term that encompasses the colloquial phrase unusually tired. In such an example, the parent concept fatigue may satisfy the predetermined degree of specificity for adverse reactions because it resides at a higher level of the adverse reaction ontology tree or contains metadata identifying it as a formal medical term.
[0222]
In some instances, a first matching phrase may not reside in a source of authority. For example, “bleeding in the mouth” may lead to a hit because an AUI exists in the consumer health vocabulary (CHV), which lists colloquial and informal terminology. However, entity CHV #8893 lies in an ontology that is not the preferred ontology for adverse reactions (such as ontology metadata description and registry (MDR)) mapped to technical terminology through UMLS CUIs. In this case, “Oral Hemorrhage” may be the technical term linked to the MDR ontology but may not appear in the CHV ontology.
[0223]
In other instances, patient records may reference older terms for medications which are no longer in use. A medication ontology may include mappings from obsolete namings to current medication or drug names. In one example, “Amithopterin” is an obsolete term which has been deprecated in favor of a more current “Methotrexate”.
[0224]
In one example, a patient record may contain the sentence, “The patient reports that he is a non-smoker and does not drink alcohol.” Abstraction may include generating the following result:
Concept	Matched	Canonical	UMLS	Concept
Text	Type	Concept	Concept	CUI	Name
non-smoker	Smoking	NCI#C65108	SNOMEDCT_US#266919005	C0425293	Never
Status				Smoker
[0225]
A phrase match for “Non-smoker” may receive a hit in an NCI ontology; however, without qualification may better be represented by the term “Never Smoker”, which represents a person with no smoking history. An abstraction specialist may have created a look-up table with relational linking from an undesired source to a source of authority. A phrase match to the table may then be automatically assigned the appropriate entity.
[0226]
In one example, a patient record may contain the sentence, “Recommend following up with interstitial brachytherapy to the lumpectomy site.” Abstraction may include generating the following results:
Concept	Matched	Canonical	UMLS	Concept
Text	Type	Concept	Concept	CUI	Name
interstitial	Radiotherapy	SNOMEDCT_US#113120007	SNOMEDCT_US#399315003	C1881237	Brachytherapy
brachytherapy	Modality
lumpectomy	Surgical	NCI#C15755	SNOMEDCT_US#64368001	C0851238	Lumpectomy
Procedure				of breast
(procedure)
[0227]
A phrase match for “interstitial brachytherapy” may be one of many child concepts of “brachytherapy”. Given the sheer number of alternatives for representing each modality of radiotherapy, each child concept may be assigned a parent concept that is not a strict parent in the ontology, that is, the entity corresponding to C1881237 may not be a parent entity in the ontology, but a mapping for all associated terms may be manually or automatically curated and assigned the singular parent in the look-up table. In such a manner, an appropriate parent concept may be substituted to ensure that all terms for the same concept are assigned a standardized entity to ensure cohesiveness of records across patients.
[0228]
A phrase match for “lumpectomy” may be recognized as a shorthand term synonymous with the more specific “Lumpectomy of breast (procedure)”. A desired specificity may be required for the assigned entity which contains the most prominently used term for a procedure. Similarly to interstitial brachytherapy, manual or automated curation may assign all shorthand forms of an entity with a standardized entity.
[0229]
In one example, a patient record may include the sentence, “Patient has a history of hypertension and type 2 diabetes.”
Concept	Matched	Canonical	UMLS	Concept
Text	Type	Concept	Concept	CUI	Name
hypertension	Comorbidities	SNOMEDCT_US#38341003	SNOMEDCT_US#38341003	C0020538	Hypertension
type
2	Comorbidities	CHV#0000003837	SNOMEDCT_US#44054006	C0011860	Diabetes
diabetes					Mellitus, Non-
Insulin
Dependent
[0230]
Not all phrases will map to a non-authoritative source or a phrase which lacks a desired specificity. In this instance, “hypertension” is a direct match within a source of authority and may be assigned without normalization to another ontology.
[0231]
A colloquial phrase match for “type 2 diabetes” may be references for an AUI in the CHV vocabulary. A relational relationship may exist in the ontology for linking the CHV ontology match with a source of authority. Such predefined relationships may be referenced and traversed. In some instances, the relationships must be manually approved or white-listed to allow traversal. An approval or white-listing is an indication that the relationship maintains accuracy with the original mapping and does not result in information loss such as a change in the scope of meaning between any linked phrases. One such relationship may include a “is informal” relationship. In this case, “Diabetes Mellitus, Non-Insulin Dependent” may be the entity having a technical term linked as a formal phrasing.
[0232]
In one example, a patient record may include a sentence, “After the patient's lumpectomy to remove an area of Ductal Carcinoma in Situ, they will receive brachytherapy.”
[0233]
In some embodiments, direct mapping may not be possible based on a phrase alone. Inferences may be derived, either through manual curation or machine learning, to utilize contextual presence of lumpectomy procedure and Ductal Carcinoma in Situ tumor characterization to support an inference that the primary cancer site is breast.
Concept	Matched	Canonical	UMLS	Concept
Text	Type	Concept	Concept	CUI	Name
lumpectomy	Surgical	NCI#C15755	SNOMEDCT_US#64368001	C0851238	Lumpectomy
Procedure				of breast
(procedure)
Ductal	Tumor	NCI#C2924	SNOMEDCT_US#128879006	C1266022	Ductal
Carcinoma in	Characterization				Carcinoma in
Situ					Situ
brachytherapy	Radiotherapy	SNOMEDCT_US#399315003	SNOMEDCT_US#399315003	C0851238	Brachytherapy
Modality
<inferred>	Primary Cancer		SNOMEDCT_US#94012007	C0346742	Breast
Site
[0234]
In one example, a phrase “lumpectomy” may be recognized as a shorthand term, synonymous with the more specific “Lumpectomy of breast (procedure)”. An entity relating to a preferred vocabulary may be assigned. Additionally, metadata with the assigned entity may reference cancer site breast.
[0235]
In one example, “Ductal Carcinoma in Situ” may be defined in multiple vocabularies. Phrase matching may return a hit to all matched vocabularies, or may return a hit to the first matched vocabulary. Each vocabulary may be mapped to SNOMED due to its completeness and a SNOMED entity assigned. Similarly, metadate with the assigned entity may reference cancer site breast.
[0236]
As disclosed above, “brachytherapy” may be a direct match that does not require additional normalization steps as the phrase match is already from an authoritative source and is specific to radiotherapy.
[0237]
Inferences may be generated when metadata of associated concepts, such as those concepts in the same paragraph or sentence, repeatedly indicate a certain feature (cancer site of the breast), an inference may be drawn that a feature without a phrase match is identified and converted to a structured format. Here, because multiple phrase matches indicated breast cancer must be present to receive the procedure or directly reference a tumor which by its very nature must be of the breast, an inferred primary cancer site may be assigned for breast.
[0238]
Returning to FIG. 1, the post-processing pipeline stage 170 may receive a listing of all the structured entities and generate a response/report. For example, a response may be formatted into an output divided into several sections, each section relating to, for example, the fields of Diagnosis, Procedures, Radiology, etc., as discussed above. Under a Diagnosis header/identifier, structured entities relating to diagnosis may be summarized with the final normalized entity, information from the entity structuring, and any confidence values generated during the classification and/or ranking/filtering. The response may include all of the sections with corresponding structured entities. The response may be generated and output, e.g., as a word document, a spreadsheet, or a JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) file with each of the relevant sections and structured entities encoded therein.
[0239]
The MLA and DLNN algorithms described herein may be implemented using supervised, unsupervised, and/or semi-supervised approaches. Patient/document classification based off of text classification is the general task of processing text and identifying whether it belongs to one of many pre-defined groups (e.g., the above-referenced medical fields). For example, supervised machine learning methods may be used to classify patients as Male or Female, because many clinical documents exist for patients whose genders are known. Exemplary non-machine learning ways of determining a gender would be to apply a regular expression for “Gender:” in text or “pt is a ## yo X”. It would be an exhausting endeavor to create a regular expression for every potential combination of words or characters that gender may be mentioned in text in order to be able to extract it using simple text matching. Instead, a simple heuristic component for classifying a gender may be to determine the ratio of male vs female pronouns in text, under the assumption that references in medical text are almost entirely describing the patient (as opposed to their family members or medical staff, who are occasionally mentioned as well).
[0240]
Similarly, a supervised machine learning method may require that the gender is known or provided for some batch of patients. The machine learning method may then extract signals or features from the text that are indicative of the gender. At that point, a Naive Bayes MLA may be utilized to, for example, identify the ratio of male vs female pronouns. The Naive Bayes MLA may determine the frequency of every word that occurs in any clinical document occurs in the male documents vs how often the same words occur in the female documents in terms of probability (e.g., ‘he’ is 2% of words in male documents and 0.1% of female documents). Once trained, for each new document to be classified, the Naive Bayes may use the generated probabilities/statistics to determine the likelihood that a document falls within the male linguistic probability distribution or the female distribution. A general threshold value or comparison may be applied to determine whichever probability is higher.
[0241]
While supervised methods are useful when the training dataset has many known values or annotations, the nature of EMR/EHR documents is that there may not be many annotations provided. When exploring large amounts of unlabeled data, unsupervised methods are useful for binning/bucketing instances in the data set. Returning to the example regarding gender, an unsupervised approach may attempt to identify a natural divide of documents into two groups without explicitly taking gender into account. On the other hand, a drawback to a purely unsupervised approach is that there's no guarantee that the division identified is related to gender. For example, the division may be between patients who went to Hospital System A and those who did not.
[0242]
As a result, semi-supervised methods may be the most optimal approach whenever there are a large number of unlabeled or unannotated documents as well as labeled documents in the training set. EMRs/EHRs may be particularly well-suited to this approach, because hospitals take care to note key health information for each patient. For example, considering a practical approach to applying a semi-supervised MLA, presume that an exemplary dataset generates a probability distribution such that “he” accounts for 2% of the words in male patients' documents and 0.75% of female patients' documents. If these estimates were taken over a small number of patients (e.g., 100 pages of text total), but 80 of these pages are from female patients, the probability distribution may be quite susceptible to noise (i.e, erroneous weighing) and may generate wrong or undesirable results.
[0243]
The unsupervised approach solves this by providing a number of documents from patients whose genders unknown, effectively allowing the MLA to learn something about language in general. Specifically, the MLA determines how frequent “he” may be presented in clinical text in general. If the semi-supervised MLA identifies that “he” only occurs 0.5% of the time, “he” may be occurring unusually frequently in the labeled documents (e.g., at 2% and 0.75% probability distribution). For example, no ratio of male-to-female patients could balance out to 0.5% given an initial probabilities of 0.75% and 2%. Instead, the MLA corrects for the noise in the data set by applying the information that there were more female patients than male patients and accordingly adjust the probabilities more strongly for the male probability distributions than the female. A scaled probability distribution may indicate that “he” occurs at 0.9% frequency in male patient files and 0.1% in female patient files, so that the average distribution of “he” is 0.5%. The semi-supervised MLA may then accurately apply the heuristic technique as a portion of the classification determination.
[0244]
Machine learning algorithms and deep learning neural networks tend to provide approximate solutions to any complex problem without a clear set of rules to constrain the problem through. MLA and DLNN are most useful for problems which are too difficult to constrain accurately to a few simple rules/constraints and excel at finding unique solutions to these complex problems. These unique solutions may also include equally unique bugs for edge cases of the unique solution, which may require fine tuning to improve the performance of the MLA by adding better/more accurate/more representative training data, by tuning hyperparameters, or by improving or replacing the MLAs themselves.
[0245]
In an exemplary model, as described below with reference to FIG. 8, a training feedback loop operates to improve the training data set by improving the annotations of the edge cases and using the improved training data to refine the MLA model itself. For example, an initial MLA trained on an initial data set may be only 75% accurate at its given task. By directly utilizing the MLA in a platform where humans are entering data based on clinical documents for patients, edge cases (erroneous output) may be identified, the annotations surrounding the documents/patients of the edge case may be improved, and the improvements submitted back into the MLA to further train the model to improve accuracy. Regardless of whether the human agrees or disagrees with the machine learning model's prediction/classification, the human takes into account the prediction as well as other information in the clinical documents before making their final annotation. This final annotation is utilized as the “gold standard” by which the MLA should operate and can immediately add the labeled documents and the corresponding annotation to the training data set to improve the results when the MLA is trained in the future. Each edge case that is corrected by a human, even each additional question that a human answers above and beyond the erroneous outputs may directly help the machine learning model answer the corresponding question correctly in the future.
[0246]
The feedback process may be improved by adding the ability to collect direct feedback from an annotator. For example, if the annotator agrees with the machine learning model's prediction, then it may be presumed that the prediction was correct. Conversely, if the annotator disagrees with the prediction, it may not be clear why the MLA prediction was wrong. For example, the MLA may make an erroneous prediction if the documents were for the wrong person, if OCR errors exist which confounded the prediction, or if the model simply was not sufficiently trained to make a correct prediction from the data in that instance.
[0247]
Turning now to FIG. 8, an exemplary system architecture is depicted. In particular, FIG. 8 depicts a scenario in which the system receives documents, for example, from a Clinical Data Vault 815, new documents from a Document Pipeline 805, or corrected documents via the Workbench 810 (introduced below), uploads documents, and posts them to a server that coordinates a number of tasks and manages the intake of documents for the intake pipeline described in FIG. 1.
[0248]
From there, and within the Document Pipeline 805, the documents are posted to another server that stores sensitive files and authenticates all access to those files. Concurrently, a copy of each of the documents is sent to a converter, which patches each document with a viewable image, e.g., a PDF, of the document. The system calls an OCR service, such as Google Cloud Vision or Tesseract, which runs optical character recognition on the documents. Alternatively, if the system determines that the document was already OCRed, a cached copy of the OCR document is retrieved from a database, such as the File Storage 832. The viewable image file then is linked with the original file. Similarly, a copy of a searchable text version of the document is provided from the OCR service to combine with the original document and the viewable image from the converter and, if not previously OCRed, a second copy of the searchable text version is transmitted to the database where it is cached. The Abstraction Engine 820 and its toolbox components utilize MLA and NLP to generate predictions.
[0249]
Once the patient documents are processed in the Document Pipeline 805, Workbench 810, and then processed through OCR, raw OCR information may be pulled from the database. The processing intake pipeline stage for pre-processing and OCR occurs in these servers/processes. The system also may check the database to determine whether improved NLP models have been provided and retrieve any new or updated models. The system then applies the most current NLP algorithms and models to the raw OCR files. In this regard, patient data may be encoded differently depending on the project for which it is being used, so the system may communicate with a service (e.g., the Institution Templates 824 module) that includes one or more templates to set forth how the OCR'd data should be abstracted and which values within that data are displayed for each field. Tabular and template extraction may also be contained within a database within the Institution Templates 824 module.
[0250]
The predictive data is then tailored for the given project from the tabular extraction applied, and those predictions then are posted to a second database (e.g., a database within the Abstraction Engine 820 for use by one or more additional applications. The system may specify a global encoding list for all of the concepts related to each of the dictionaries/databases and the internal universal dictionary (e.g., medical concepts and fields described above). Using medications as an example, the system specifies all of the medication ingredients that may be beneficial for analysis.
[0251]
By narrowing the search to a targeted list of concepts that are important to identify, overall processing speed of the architecture may be improved. For example, UMLS metadata may be applied to determine that “Tylenol” is a brand name drug, “acetaminophen” is a generic ingredient as described above. When “Tylenol” is recognized as a medication, medication-specific queries may be processed to identify normalization candidates, for example, within the Abstraction Engine 820. If a query returns that “acetaminophen” is within the system but “eucalyptus leaves” is not, any medication determined to be eucalyptus-based may be ignored by the system.
[0252]
The Workbench 810 may represent a server for maintaining a user interface (UI) to implement a patient record analysis system responsible for managing the flow of information between systems of the instant architecture and/or stage of the processing pipeline. An exemplary high-level description of the UI may include three windows/panes, e.g.: a center pane that allows an abstractor to view patient documents for which the other two panes may display information relating to. A left pane may be configured for entering the abstracted information, including fields (i.e., drop-down lists), dates can be entered and subjected to rules for validation (e.g., DOB must be before date of death), singular fields (e.g. patient's gender or primary cancer diagnosis), repeatable fields (e.g. drugs the patient took, surgeries, etc), fields with sub-fields (e.g. medication structured data, cancer diagnoses, etc. as disclosed above with reference to FIG. 2). A right pane may be configured for displaying Abstraction Engine 820 results. The way these are structured is determined by the Abstraction Engine 820 configuration. Category groups fields at a high level and specifies, for example, four of them currently: Demographics, diagnosis, treatments, outcomes. Categories have many fields, which are what the abstractors are trying to enter values for. These fields may also be expanded and collapsed. When expanded, a list of values that the Abstraction Engine 820 predicted for that field (and optionally, a confidence score specified for that value) may be shown. Fields can also have justifications tied to them, which are text snippets that the Abstraction Engine 820 determines best shows why the given value is correct for the given field. Given that many of the predictions are tied to the intake pipeline stages, the text surrounding the identified concept candidate may be provided as the justification.
[0253]
Workbench 810, the patient record analysis system, may access and/or retrieve patient data from a patient record located in a workflow component, such as the Clinical Data Vault 815, or from the patient record including the documents that were stored in the Document Pipeline 805. For each document, the Workbench 810 may also retrieve the corresponding NLP predictions from the Abstraction Engine 820, e.g., from the Prediction Repository 826. Once abstracted, the final abstraction report and data may be transmitted to the Clinical Data Vault 815. For example, the MLAs may have already provided classifications/predictions for the patient that is being abstracted. The Abstraction Engine 820 may have already processed all of the documents for the given patient, generated its predictions, and uploaded them to the Prediction Repository 826. The Workbench 810 server may then retrieve the patient documents as well as Abstraction Engine 820 predictions for each patient. An abstractor may use an interface of the Workbench 810 for manual abstraction. The Abstraction Engine 820 pipeline may be further optimized such that the Workbench 810 interface also includes machine learning predictions for each template's fields and presents them to the abstractors (e.g., the fields of FIG. 2). Once identifications of relevant metadata for clinical concepts are found in text, the Abstraction Engine 820 may generate predictions. Once entity normalization has been completed, a report may be generated and stored in the Clinical Data Vault 815, for example, in a text file or a JSON format. This information may be populated for every medication that is identified in the patient's clinical documents and may also be provided to the Abstraction Engine 820 for storing this information in a protected database. Other services can then query the Abstraction Engine 820 by Patient or by Document and determine which clinical predictions the Abstraction Engine 820 has made. The Abstraction Engine 820 implements the parser, entity linking, and entity normalization intake pipelines stages.
[0254]
As mentioned above, the system periodically checks to make sure that the NLP/MLA models being used are most up-to-date (e.g., elements 135, 145, and 155 from FIG. 1). The system may include a bootcamp subroutine, e.g., within the Shared NLP Models 828 module, for evaluating and updating the NLP and MLA models. In this subroutine, the system retrieves clinical record documents from the clinical data vault, e.g., based on one or more unique user id's, on clinical features common to one or more patients, or any other criteria. The subroutine also may communicate with the File Storage 832 database to retrieve the raw OCR files corresponding to each of those documents, as well as the current NLP model. The system further may retrieve abstractor feedback (e.g., the feedback loop's erroneous result corrections/annotations) from the toolbox. Each of these inputs may be used to execute a training script to verify or update the NLP model. At that point, metadata relating to the updated model may be communicated to the Model Training 822 module (e.g., for later human inspection, model or data provenance, and/or long-term metrics). The Workbench 810 supports the ability for abstractors to tag the Abstraction Engine's 820 incorrect predictions with a predetermined set of issues (e.g., documents are from wrong patient, OCR errors, wrong entity linked, correct concept candidate, wrong entity linked, correct concept candidate but hypothetical reference in document cannot be construed as haven taken place, etc.). For example, in the case of patients whose predictions are incorrect because ‘Documents are for wrong patient’, the Model Training 822 module may ignore these patients when training future MLAs to understand gender or may instantiate a specific training phase to train the current MLAs to predict which patients have documents from multiple patients and exclude from training and/or flag all patients which have documents from wrong patient for independent abstraction.
[0255]
Similarly, other tags such as ‘Bad prediction due to OCR error’ may be applied as feedback on a given OCR software/service, which means the system can implement various OCR services and use abstractor feedback to determine the highest quality OCR service from various competitors. The Abstraction Engine 820, Workbench 810, and Document Pipeline 805 together implement the Entity structuring and post processing intake pipeline stages.
[0256]
The Workbench 810 facilitates and incorporates human abstraction by providing prediction justifications and confidence metrics alongside the predictions. A number of issues arise when providing an abstractor with only a single list of possible answers and corresponding confidence values. For example, an abstractor may not be provided with any reasoning about how the predictions or confidence values are calculated, or it may not be clear when an abstractor should trust the NLP models and when they should take a deeper look into the patient record because it is difficult to know what confidence level is needed before an output needs to be verified for accuracy. Instead of making this decision the sole responsibility of the abstractor, Abstraction Engine is designed to provide justifications for its predictions in the form of textual contexts that are determined to indicate that a prediction is correct.
[0257]
Following the example of structuring a full medication entry that included a Text Context field (i.e., FIG. 1), additional processing may determine whether the fully structured concept is a positive mention (e.g., it is not related to a family member's previous illness or treatments, it is not a hypothetical treatment proposed by a doctor, it is not a diagnosis unrelated to the patient that happens to be mentioned in supplemental literature, etc.) and maintaining links to text context may be a useful justification to the positive mention. This determination may be processed through other text classification algorithms that use the contextual information to identify whether the concept mention is positive or negative. For example, the simplest implementation may include a pattern-based system configured to ignore diagnoses in contexts such as “{mother/father/sister/etc} has a history of {disease}.” While these phrases may be considered in the NLP algorithm itself, error checking may involve repeating the process in low confidence predictions, or providing additional algorithms with text classifiers that utilize the additional textual context. Another embodiment may involve aggregating all of the mentions of a primary cancer site which may also include all or some of the textual contexts for those mentions, which can provide the abstractor with confidence that the prediction was correct without manual intervention.
[0258]
Referring again to FIG. 8, patient upload, prediction generation, abstraction, and feedback and training processes of the instant architecture are disclosed. In particular, this figure illustrates a process in which Patient documents stored in Clinical Data Vault 815 may be sent to Workbench 810 and then to the Document Pipeline 805. OCR may run either an OCR service such as Google Cloud Vision or Tesseract to OCR documents or, if the document was previously OCRed, it may retrieve a cached copy of the OCR from within the Abstract Engine 820. OCR may patch the documents with a searchable text version of the PDFs, and OCR may cache the raw OCR files to the Abstraction Engine File Storage 832.
[0259]
Once the patient documents are processed, the Abstraction Engine 820 may pull raw OCR files from its File Storage 832, check the File Storage 832 for improved NLP models and pull them if necessary, run the documents through its current NLP pipeline and models (including Best Trained Model 830), pull project-specific templates from Institution Templates module 824, tailor its final predictions for the given project, and post those predictions and related metadata to its Prediction Repository 826. In this regard, patients may be encoded differently in each project, so the Institution Templates module 824 may be a service that coordinates project encodings (e.g. which fields are abstracted, which values are displayed for each field).
[0260]
When a Workbench user loads a patient, Workbench 810 may pull the patient record from the Document Pipeline 805. Workbench 810 also may pull the corresponding Abstraction Engine predictions from the Abstraction Engine Prediction Repository 826 (if the predictions are available). The Workbench 810 may abstract data field by field and pass patient data to the Document Pipeline 805. Patients may provide direct feedback about specific NLP predictions, which will be passed directly to the Abstraction Engine 820 to assist future training using the Model Training module 822. Final abstraction reports and data then may be stored in the Clinical Data Vault 815.
[0261]
In order to accomplish feedback and training processes, the Model Training module 822 within the Abstraction Engine 820 may periodically update Abstraction Engine NLP models, including the Shared NLP Models 828 and the Best Trained Model 830. Specifically, the Model Training module 822 may be initialized by a script or a periodic update protocol. The Model Training module 822 also may pull: clinical records from the Clinical Data Vault 815 for a list of patient UUIDs specified by script/protocol, the raw OCR files that correspond to each of these patients' documents from the Abstraction Engine File Storage 832, and existing NLP models from File Storage 832 (some models can be trained multiple times and improve over many iterations of new data). Abstractor feedback may be pulled from Workbench 810 into the Abstraction Engine 820 for additional training info. The Abstraction Engine 820 may execute its training script and post NLP models to File Storage 832 and also post model metadata for human inspection, model/data provenance, and long-term metrics.
[0262]
Turning now to FIG. 9, an illustration of an example machine of a computer system 900 within which a set of instructions, for causing the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein, may be executed. In alternative implementations, the machine may be connected (such as networked) to other machines in a LAN, an intranet, an extranet, and/or the Internet.
[0263]
The machine may operate in the capacity of a server or a client machine in client-server network environment, as a peer machine in a peer-to-peer (or distributed) network environment, or as a server or a client machine in a cloud computing infrastructure or environment. The machine may be a personal computer (PC), a tablet PC, a set-top box (STB), a Personal Digital Assistant (PDA), a cellular telephone, a web appliance, a server, a network router, a switch or bridge, or any machine capable of executing a set of instructions (sequential or otherwise) that specify actions to be taken by that machine. Further, while a single machine is illustrated, the term “machine” shall also be taken to include any collection of machines that individually or jointly execute a set (or multiple sets) of instructions to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein.
[0264]
The example computer system 900 includes a processing device 902, a main memory 904 (such as read-only memory (ROM), flash memory, dynamic random access memory (DRAM) such as synchronous DRAM (SDRAM) or DRAM, etc.), a static memory 906 (such as flash memory, static random access memory (SRAM), etc.), and a data storage device 918, which communicate with each other via a bus 930.
[0265]
Processing device 902 represents one or more general-purpose processing devices such as a microprocessor, a central processing unit, or the like. More particularly, the processing device may be complex instruction set computing (CISC) microprocessor, reduced instruction set computing (RISC) microprocessor, very long instruction word (VLIW) microprocessor, or processor implementing other instruction sets, or processors implementing a combination of instruction sets. Processing device 902 may also be one or more special-purpose processing devices such as an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), a field programmable gate array (FPGA), a digital signal processor (DSP), network processor, or the like. The processing device 902 is configured to execute instructions 922 for performing the operations and steps discussed herein.
[0266]
The computer system 900 may further include a network interface device 908 for connecting to the LAN, intranet, internet, and/or the extranet. The computer system 900 also may include a video display unit 910 (such as a liquid crystal display (LCD) or a cathode ray tube (CRT)), an alphanumeric input device 912 (such as a keyboard), a cursor control device 914 (such as a mouse), a signal generation device 916 (such as a speaker), and a graphic processing unit 924 (such as a graphics card).
[0267]
The data storage device 918 may be a machine-readable storage medium 928 (also known as a computer-readable medium) on which is stored one or more sets of instructions or software 922 embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions 922 may also reside, completely or at least partially, within the main memory 904 and/or within the processing device 902 during execution thereof by the computer system 900, the main memory 904 and the processing device 902 also constituting machine-readable storage media.
[0268]
In one implementation, the instructions 922 include instructions for a Processing Pipeline (such as the Processing Pipeline 100 of FIG. 1) and/or a software library containing methods that function as a Processing Pipeline. The instructions 922 may further include instructions for an Intake Pipeline Module (such as the Intake Pipeline Module 110 of FIG. 1) While the machine-readable storage medium 928 is shown in an example implementation to be a single medium, the term “machine-readable storage medium” should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media (such as a centralized or distributed database, and/or associated caches and servers) that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term “machine-readable storage medium” shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing or encoding a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present disclosure. The term “machine-readable storage medium” shall accordingly be taken to include, but not be limited to, solid-state memories, optical media and magnetic media. The term “machine-readable storage medium” shall accordingly exclude transitory storage mediums such as signals unless otherwise specified by identifying the machine readable storage medium as a transitory storage medium or transitory machine-readable storage medium.
[0269]
In another implementation, a virtual machine 940 may include a module for executing instructions for an Intake Pipeline Module (such as the Intake Pipeline Module 110 of FIG. 1). In computing, a virtual machine (VM) is an emulation of a computer system. Virtual machines are based on computer architectures and provide functionality of a physical computer. Their implementations may involve specialized hardware, software, or a combination of hardware and software.
[0270]
Some portions of the preceding detailed descriptions have been presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the ways used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here, and generally, conceived to be a self-consistent sequence of operations leading to a desired result. The operations are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually, though not necessarily, these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored, combined, compared, and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times, principally for reasons of common usage, to refer to these signals as bits, values, elements, symbols, characters, terms, numbers, or the like.
[0271]
It should be borne in mind, however, that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the above discussion, it is appreciated that throughout the description, discussions utilizing terms such as “identifying” or “providing” or “calculating” or “determining” or the like, refer to the action and processes of a computer system, or similar electronic computing device, that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical (electronic) quantities within the computer system's registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage devices. The present disclosure also relates to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the intended purposes, or it may comprise a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium, such as, but not limited to, any type of disk including floppy disks, optical disks, CD-ROMs, and magnetic-optical disks, read-only memories (ROMs), random access memories (RAMs), EPROMs, EEPROMs, magnetic or optical cards, or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions, each coupled to a computer system bus.
[0272]
The algorithms and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein, or it may prove convenient to construct a more specialized apparatus to perform the method. The structure for a variety of these systems will appear as set forth in the description below. In addition, the present disclosure is not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the disclosure as described herein.
[0273]
The present disclosure may be provided as a computer program product, or software, that may include a machine-readable medium having stored thereon instructions, which may be used to program a computer system (or other electronic devices) to perform a process according to the present disclosure. A machine-readable medium includes any mechanism for storing information in a form readable by a machine (such as a computer). For example, a machine-readable (such as computer-readable) medium includes a machine (such as a computer) readable storage medium such as a read only memory (“ROM”), random access memory (“RAM”), magnetic disk storage media, optical storage media, flash memory devices, etc.
[0274]
In the foregoing specification, implementations of the disclosure have been described with reference to specific example implementations thereof. It will be evident that various modifications may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of implementations of the disclosure as set forth in the following claims. The specification and drawings are, accordingly, to be regarded in an illustrative sense rather than a restrictive sense.
[0275]
The systems described above may have multiple uses that are beneficial to clinicians and researchers involved in the treatment of diseases, research into diseases, and data analysis involving disease. One example is in the field of clinical trials. A clinical trial is a research study to determine the safety and efficacy of a drug, device, biologic, or other potential treatment. Clinical trials often have inclusion and exclusion criteria, whereby a patient must meet all of the inclusion criteria and not have any of the exclusion criteria in order to enroll in the study. Many clinical trials have specific criteria that can be determined only after close examination of the medical record. For instance, an example of inclusion criteria for a study of chemotherapy of breast cancer subjects might be postmenopausal women between the ages of 45 and 75 who have been diagnosed with Stage II breast cancer. An exclusion criterion for this study may include a positive identification for abnormal renal function, if, for example, one or more of the drugs used as treatment in the study are nephrotoxic. A medical institution, such as a hospital, may have many patients who are eligible for the study, but require the system described above in order to parse their EHR in order to prepare a list of patients who are eligible to participate in the study. The clinical trial systems and methods described herein may be operated upon and/or utilized in connection with the systems and methods described in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62/855,913, titled Systems and Methods of Clinical Trial Evaluation, filed May 31, 2019, the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference and in their entirety.
[0276]
Another example relates to the development of synthetic control arms for clinical trials. In a clinical trial, a group of patients (called the “control group”) receives standard of care treatment while a second group (the “experimental group”) receives an experimental treatment (such as a study drug). Often, a study is “blinded” meaning the patients who enroll in the study do not know if they are part of the control group or the experimental group. It can be difficult to recruit patients to clinical trials because many patients wish to ensure they are part of the experimental group. An institution may utilize the systems and methods described herein in order to create a list of structured data from each patient in the EHR who meets the inclusion/exclusion criteria. By leveraging the existing data of patients who do not qualify for the clinical trials, a propensity based model may supplement the clinical trial data as the control arm of the study. These patients may be considered the control group, and their health data as captured in structured format may be utilized as the control arm of the study. In this way, a separate enrolled control group is not needed for the study, and the patients who enroll may all be made part of the experimental group.
[0277]
Another example relates to data analysis of an institution's EHR. Many institutions, such as hospitals, retain patient health information in free text that is not easily searchable for patterns in treatment or outcomes. Using the systems above, institutions may be able to create structured data sets with data elements that permit the institution to conduct sophisticated data analysis to look for data trends. Such trends may indicate best practices in particular departments, or may indicate areas of concern that require the institution to conduct further investigation. For example, the institution may utilize the systems and methods described above in order to determine which patients are being prescribed which medications at which dosages. The systems and methods may be used periodically (for instance, on a quarterly basis), to analyze utilization rates. As another example, the institution may utilize the systems and methods described above in order to characterize the outcomes of patients with respect to treatments which they have been prescribed and undertook while under the care of the institution. The analysis may be conducted in a way that the structured data generated by the systems and methods described above omits certain data elements in order to ensure that the structured data is de-identified or that protected health information is securely maintained, encoded, or removed. For instance, name, address (all geographic subdivisions smaller than state, including street address, city, county, and zip code), elements (except years) of dates related to an individual (including birthdate, admission date, discharge date, date of death, and exact age if over 89), telephone numbers, fax number, email address, Social Security Number, medical record number, health plan beneficiary number, account number, certificate or license number, any vehicle or other device serial number, web URL, Internet Protocol (IP) address, finger or voice print, or photographic image of the patient, may all be omitted from structured data fields. Alternatively, or in addition, the resulting data may be run through a statistical system to ensure there is a very low chance it contains identifiable health information. Once de-identified, the institution may provide the data to a third party for further analysis or other use.
[0278]
In another example, an institution may utilize the systems and methods described above to conduct automatic quality checks on the information contained in its medical record. For instance, the institution may use the systems and methods to compare information in one section of the medical record with information in another section of the medical record to ensure consistency between the records in each section. As an example, imaging reports on cancer tumors can contain radiology information about the tumor (such as its size), while a radiology report prepared by a physician may also contain similar information. The systems and methods described herein may be used to ensure that the imaging report (for instance, the tumor diameter is 2 cm) is consistent with the information as the radiology report (for instance, the tumor diameter is 2 cm). If the information is different, an alert may be triggered to have a clinician review the record further.
[0279]
In another example, other types of records could be used instead of patient records to create a structured set of data from unstructured information. One type of record that could be analyzed using the systems and methods described above is a scientific journal publication. Many publications disclose information about new and potentially promising treatments in cancer and other diseases. Other publications disclose information about existing treatments that may be useful for newly indicated diseases. The systems and methods described herein may be used to automatically generate a list of structured data from a scientific publication (for instance, it may generate a list of structured data indicating that a certain drug is effective at a certain dosage for a certain class of patients). The list of structured data may be combined in a knowledge database comprising other similar lists of data.
[0280]
In another example, the systems and methods described herein may produce structured data that can be aggregated, and the results of the aggregation may be analyzed for comparative purposes. One exemplary use is for population health purposes. For instance, the systems and methods described herein may be used to compare aggregated structured data from one institution with aggregated structured data from another institution or another group of institutions. Such comparison may be useful when determining medication utilization rates; duration of inpatient stays; rates of readmission; types and frequencies of diseases, such as cancers; or other indicators. As another example, the systems and methods described herein may be used to compare aggregated structured data from one geographic area with aggregated structured data from another geographic area. Structured data from an institution or a geographic area may be aggregated using methods known in the art.
[0281]
The systems and methods described herein may be operated upon and/or utilized in connection with the systems and methods described in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62/746,997, titled Data Based Cancer Research and Treatment Systems and Methods, filed Oct. 17, 2018, U.S. Non-Provisional patent application Ser. No. 16/657,804, titled Data Based Cancer Research and Treatment Systems and Methods, filed Oct. 18, 2019, U.S. Pat. No. 10,395,772, titled Mobile Supplementation, Extraction, and Analysis of Health Records, issued Aug. 27, 2019, and U.S. Non-Provisional patent application Ser. No. 16/531,005, titled Mobile Supplementation, Extraction, and Analysis of Health Records, filed Aug. 2, 2019, the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference and in their entirety.
[0282]
While the invention may be susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms, specific embodiments have been shown by way of example in the drawings and have been described in detail herein. However, it should be understood that the invention is not intended to be limited to the particular forms disclosed. Thus, the invention is to cover all modifications, equivalents, and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the following appended claims.
Claims (34)
Hide Dependent 
1. A method, comprising:
determining a first concept from a text of a medical record from an electronic health record system, the first concept relating to a patient;
identifying a match to the first concept in a first list of concepts, wherein the first list of concepts is not a predetermined authority;
referencing the first concept with an entity in a database of related concepts;
identifying a match to a second concept in a second list of concepts, the second list of concepts not directly linked to the first list of concepts except by a relationship to the entity, wherein the second list of concepts is the predetermined authority; and
providing the second concept as an identifier of the patient's medical record.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first concept and second concept are categorized as one of diagnosis, primary diagnosis site, metastatic diagnosis site, tumor characterization, standard grade, alternative grade, medications, surgical procedure, smoking status, comorbidities, adverse events, outcomes, performance scores, radiotherapy modality, radiotherapy units, imaging type, gene mention, immunology markers, TNM status, or AJCC stage.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the first list of concepts is one of a vocabulary, terminology, ontology, or code set.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the second list of concepts is another one of a vocabulary, terminology, ontology, or code set.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the first list of concepts is an ontology, the second list of concepts is an ontology, and the ontology of the first list of concepts does not link to the ontology of the second list of concepts.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein a link one of a hierarchical relationship or a non-hierarchical relationship and wherein a non-hierarchical relationship is a link comprising one of physically related to, spatially related to, temporally related to, functionally related to, or conceptually related to.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the entity in the database of related concepts is a concept in one of a vocabulary, terminology, ontology, or code set.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the entity has a first non-hierarchical relationship link between the entity and the first concept and a second non-hierarchical relationship link between the entity and the second concept.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the first non-hierarchical relationship link is a link comprising one of physically related to, spatially related to, temporally related to, functionally related to, or conceptually related to and the second non-hierarchical relationship link is a link comprising one of physically related to, spatially related to, temporally related to, functionally related to, or conceptually related to.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein an identifier is field having a structured format, the field encoding the second concept in the structured format.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the predetermined authority is one of a reference vocabulary, reference terminology, reference ontology, or reference code set.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the predetermined authority is categorized as one of diagnosis, primary diagnosis site, metastatic diagnosis site, tumor characterization, standard grade, alternative grade, medications, surgical procedure, smoking status, comorbidities, adverse events, outcomes, performance scores, radiotherapy modality, radiotherapy units, imaging type, gene mention, immunology markers, TNM status, or AJCC stage.
13. (canceled)
14. The method of claim 1, wherein the first list of concepts is a medicine ontology, the entity is a medicine, and the second list of concepts is a reference medicine ontology.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein the first list of concepts is a procedure ontology, the entity is a procedure, and the second list of concepts is a reference procedure ontology.
16. The method of claim 1, wherein the first list of concepts is an outcomes ontology, the entity is an outcome, and the second list of concepts is a reference outcome ontology.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein the first list of concepts is a medicine ontology, the entity is a treatment, and the second list of concepts is a reference diagnosis ontology.
18. The method of claim 1, wherein the first list of concepts is a unified medical ontology, the entity is a medicine, and the second list of concepts is a reference medicine ontology.
19. The method of claim 1, wherein the first list of concepts is a brand-name medicine ontology, the entity is a medicine, and the second list of concepts is a generic medicine ontology.
20. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
identifying a structured format for the identifier of the patient's medical record;
extracting fields from the structured format;
assigning one or more values associated with the second concept to the extracted fields;
identifying one or more values from the text of the medical record surrounding the first concept;
assigning one or more of the identified values to the extracted fields; and
providing the structured format having one or more assigned values as a structured record of the patient's medical record.
21. The method of claim 20, further comprising:
retrieving a predetermined degree of specificity, the predetermined degree of specificity identifying selection criteria for the identifier of the patient's medical record;
identifying a degree of specificity of the second concept;
evaluating the degree of specificity of the second concept with the selection criteria of the predetermined degree of specificity;
normalizing the second concept within the predetermined authority to a third concept satisfying the selection criteria of the predetermined degree of specificity; and
providing the third concept as the identifier of the patient's medical record.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein the third concept is categorized as one of diagnosis, primary diagnosis site, metastatic diagnosis site, tumor characterization, standard grade, alternative grade, medications, surgical procedure, smoking status, comorbidities, adverse events, outcomes, performance scores, radiotherapy modality, radiotherapy units, imaging type, gene mention, immunology markers, TNM status, or AJCC stage.
23. The method of claim 21, wherein the predetermined degree of specificity is based at least in part on a metadata of the second concept.
24. The method of claim 21, wherein the predetermined degree of specificity is based at least in part on a hierarchical position of the second concept within the second list of concepts.
25. The method of claim 21, further comprising:
identifying a structured format for the identifier of the patient's medical record;
extracting fields from the structured format;
assigning one or more values associated with the third concept to the extracted fields;
identifying one or more values from the text of the medical record surrounding the first concept;
assigning one or more of the identified values to the extracted fields; and
providing the structured format having one or more assigned values as a structured record of the patient's medical record.
26. (canceled)
27. The method of claim 20, wherein the first concepts are extracted from sentences of text using natural language processing (NLP).
28. (canceled)
29. The method of claim 21, wherein the referencing the first concept and the normalizing of the second concept are precomputed for all concepts and cached for fast retrieval.
30. A method, comprising:
applying a medical ontology to an electronic health record to extract at least one structured field value for the health record.
31. The method of claim 30, wherein the medical ontology is a cancer ontology.
32. The method of claim 31, wherein the extracted at least one structured field value is based at least in part on a result from a next-generation sequencing of a patient's tumor.
33. The method of claim 31, wherein the to extract at least one structured field further comprises:
determining a first concept relating to a patient;
referencing the first concept to an entity;
identifying a second concept relating to the entity, the second concept not directly linked to the first concept; and
providing at least the second concept as the structured field value.
34.-52. (canceled)

US20030041047A1：

Description
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001]
The present invention is directed to the problem of high-level semantic querying of multimedia data from various application domains. In particular, the invention describes a concept-based querying framework with a novel and powerful concept representation model. In association with the novel representation model, efficient concept-matching algorithms are proposed to hierarchically define and label new concepts through joining multiple rank-ordered fuzzy result sets with user-defined join conditions. Each of the rank-ordered sets represents an instantiation of a more basic concept and each join condition represents a relation characterizing two or more basic concepts.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002]
The problem of searching multimedia data has received considerable attention in the last few years. The early image query systems, such as IBM's QBIC, MIT's Photobook, the Virage system, and the like, were invented in the early to mid 90s. Those systems typically took an image or a sketch as input, computed some visual features from it (e.g., color histograms, texture, shape features), and searched one or more indexes to return images with similar features. Alternatively, one could specify values for these features and appropriate weights reflecting their relative importance. Being the first to use content-based search, those systems were a big improvement over the method of manually annotating images and doing a text search to find relevant ones.
[0003]
Researchers then focused on studying other types of features, such as wavelets, or localizing the features to sub-image regions. By segmenting the images into their regions, or objects, and comparing images at the object level, such systems got closer to the mental model of the user of how image similarity is established. They were also able to exploit not only visual feature similarity but also the relationships among the image objects, such as their spatial arrangements, for example. However, the types of relationships, or constraints, were limited by the indexing methods used. The approach used in these systems was that the system should compute the relevant constraints among the objects transparently to the user, and therefore the user had little control over the types of relationships used.
[0004]
The use of intermediate levels between the user and a database's search engines are known in the CAMEL image query system, such as is disclosed in A. Natsev et al., CAMEL: CONCEPT ANNOTATED IMAGE LIBRARIES, Storage and Retrieval for Image and Video Databases, San Jose, Calif., SPIE, (January 2001) and the multimedia thesaurus system MediaNet, as disclosed in A. B. Benitez et al., MEDIANET: A MULTIMEDIA INFORMATION NETWORK FOR KNOWLEDGE REPRESENTATION, Conference on Internet Multimedia Management Systems, volume 4210, Boston, Mass., IST/SPIE 2000 (November 2000).
[0005]
Knowledge Representation
[0006]
One of the components of a concept-based query system is how concepts are represented. If too simple, the whole framework would be too limited and useless for many applications. On the other hand, an overly complex representation would not be supported natively by many search systems, which will make the entire query process very inefficient. In search of the right balance, we hereby consider some previous knowledge representation schemes.
[0007]
Attributed Relational Graphs (or ARGs) are one form of representation used previously to capture inter-object constraints by E. Petrakis and C. Faloutsos, SIMILARITY SEARCHING IN MEDICAL IMAGE DATABASES, IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, 9(3):435-447 (May/June 1997). The nodes in ARGs correspond to objects, while the edges represent their relationships. ARGs are very similar to semantic networks, which were used in Artificial Intelligence and computer vision. Both of these representations are very good candidates for our purposes, however, they lack an appropriate hierarchical structure necessary for support of nested fuzzy views, and they do not have a suitable mechanism for specifying representation parameters that can be used for learning or extraction purposes, or to tune a representation to a particular data set, for example.
[0008]
Knowledge representations that include such parameters in the form of weights or conditional probabilities include neural networks and belief networks (or Bayesian networks). Both of them have nodes representing particular states, and weights or probabilities corresponding to the transition between these states. Neural networks were not entirely suitable for our purposes because their intermediate states do not correspond to any intuitive concepts but are there simply for auxiliary purposes. In Bayesian networks, on the other hand, all states are well-defined and have a clear interpretation or meaning that can be translated into a concept. However, the parameters on the state transitions actually correspond to conditional probabilities, while for our purposes, we only need weights to express relative importance of the inner nodes or concepts. We have therefore used a mixture of the above representations that uses a hierarchical fuzzy graph data structure.
[0009]
Fuzzy Join Methods
[0010]
Every database query system or a search engine supports filtering by constraints to a certain extent. Typically, the support extends to scalar predicates that can be evaluated for each database records independently of other records, as well as some form of aggregate predicates, where the value of the predicate for a given item depends on the other items in the database as well (e.g., nearest neighbor or top-k queries). Indexing support is usually limited for such queries and the execution becomes even more inefficient when several constraints are combined.
[0011]
Spatial and attributional constraints, for example, have been integrated previously by Petrakis and Faloutsos, Id., where the authors proposed a method for searching medical images according to their attributed relational graphs (ARGs). The method relies on the assumption that certain objects are contained in all images from a given domain (e.g., heart, lungs, etc.) in addition to a variable number of objects that are unexpected (e.g., tumor). The specific structural relationships among such objects are stored in ARGs and are used for computing image similarity. The above assumption does not generalize or scale well, however, and the indexing method is fairly ineffective if the number of unlabeled objects is large (which is typically the case for most domains). Other methods for encoding spatial relationships are the 2-D strings, which capture the relative position of objects with respect to the other objects in the set. Smith and Chang disclose a query processing system for spatial and feature-based image queries, J. R. Smith and S. F. Chang, INTEGRATED SPATIAL AND FEATURE IMAGE QUERY, Multimedia Systems, 7(2): 129-140, (1999), wherein the retrieval is based on specifying absolute or relative position constraints on the objects in the image. However, the proposed pipeline and parallel processing methods do not guarantee the lack of false dismissals.
[0012]
The problem of supporting Boolean combinations on multiple ranked independent streams was considered first by Fagin for the case of top-k queries, R. Fagin, FUZZY QUERIES IN MULTIMEDIA DATABASE SYSTEMS, Proc. of the 1998 ACM SIGACT-SIGMOD-SIGART Symposium on Principles of Database Systems, (1998); R. Fagin, COMBINING FUZZY INFORMATION FROM MULTIPLE SYSTEMS, Journal of Computer and System Sciences, 58:83-99 (1999) [an extended abstract of this paper appears in Proc. Fifteenth ACM Symp. on Principles of Database Systems (PODS '96), Montreal, 1996, pp. 216-226].
[0013]
M. Ortega, et al., INFORMATION RETRIEVAL OVER MULTIMEDIA DOCUMENTS, Technical Report TR-MARS-99-11, University of California, Irvine, Calif. (1999) and M. Ortega, et al., SUPPORTING RANKED BOOLEAN SIMILARITY QUERIES IN MARS, IEEE Trans. on Knowledge and Data Engineering, 10 (November-December 1998) disclose a similar problem of combining multiple similarity scores for the same document in a weighted fashion so that the overall score is a combination of how well the document matched the query with respect to both text and image parts. In their MARS database system, they defined a query tree whose nodes represented intermediate matches derived from the matches at the children nodes, and evaluated it from the bottom up, arriving at the final similarity score at the root. Both approaches, however, considered only Boolean conjunctions and disjunctions as the join constraints, and only a single level of a join hierarchy. The MARS approach did use a multi-level query tree but the different levels were derived simply by breaking up a single join level of multiple streams into a hierarchy of pairwise joins. Neither approach therefore considered nested fuzzy views or fuzzy joins with arbitrary constraints.
[0014]
The SPROC algorithm disclosed by C. S. Li et al., SEQUENTIAL PROCESSING FOR CONTENT-BASED RETRIEVAL OF COMPOSITE OBJECTS, Storage and Retrieval of Image and Video Databases, VI, SPIE (1998) addresses the problem of joining fuzzy result sets by means of specifying arbitrary fuzzy constraints among them (see FIG. 6 for example). It allows the user to express the query as a set of sub-queries (nodes in a graph), along with fuzzy constraints among them (edges between the nodes). The problem is solved by looking for a maximal cost path, computed with a Vitterbi-like algorithm. Based on certain assumptions, the algorithm allowed both pruning of some edges, as well as some nodes. The assumptions were that no nodes participate in more than one constraint and that there were no cycles. This method is the most general of the above-described methods but is still designed for a single hierarchy level.
[0015]
The advances in computing power over the last few years have made a considerable amount of multimedia data available on the web and in domain-specific applications. The result has been an increasing emphasis on the requirements for searching and describing such large repositories of multimedia data. One of the first realizations about this new field was the fact that the traditional database model for querying of structured data does not generalize well to multimedia domains of unstructured data. One reason was that in databases, the results were always well-defined and unordered sets (i.e., each item was either in or out of the result set), while in multimedia queries, the results were fuzzy and typically ordered by their degree of similarity to the query. Another difference was in the way the data was queried. While the relational database model treated all items as feature sets and consequently all queries were on the features, it was not apparent how to convert a sample image query into an feature query in a meaningful and simple fashion. This led to the widespread adoption of the query by example (or query by content) model for image search, where the user would specify a sample image and the system would return images that are similar in color, shape, texture features, and the like.
[0016]
The above query model has some advantages, such as comparison and ranking of images based on objective visual features, rather than on subjective image annotations, for example; and automated indexing of the image data, as opposed to labor consuming manual image annotation. However, this model has its drawbacks as well. For one, in some applications it is difficult to find an appropriate query sample from the same domain, or it may be difficult to provide it to the query engine. In most cases, he/she would have to do an extra text search step in the image annotations (file name, URL, surrounding text context, etc.), in order to find suitable image candidates to start the content-based search. However, even then, they may not find a suitable query image, and this reduction of the image search problem to a text search one is only a workaround rather than a permanent fix for the problem. In other domains, there may not even be available annotations, or it has to be done manually, which makes the approach difficult to scale.
[0017]
The more important drawback of the query-by-content model, however, is the fact that there is no intuitive way of describing multimedia data, and therefore there is a large gap between the user's perception or conceptual understanding of the data and the way it is actually stored and manipulated. When a query is issued against text documents, this is less of a problem because the user perceives documents as a collection of words and this is typically how the documents are represented. A search based on keywords therefore makes sense, both from the user's perspective, as well as from the system design point of view. However, in the image domain, for example, the physical image representation is very different from the mental model of the user. Therefore, the system does not really allow the user to clearly express what he/she is looking for. That ambiguity in the query specification reduces usability and naturally translates into poor retrieval effectiveness, leading to user frustration.
[0018]
In light of the above problems there is a need for a different, concept-based query model.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0019]
Disclosed is a method for querying stored multimedia data in a computer system, comprising receiving into an intermediate level a high-level concept from a user describing data to be retrieved, translating, in said intermediate level, said high-level concept into low-level queries by using system pre-defined high-level concepts, transferring said low-level queries to a low level comprising one or more search engines; said one or more search engines performing a query of the stored multimedia information using said low-level queries.
[0020]
In another aspect of the method, said intermediate level comprises a set of library modules, said set of library modules comprising a concept library module for storing concepts, and one or more library modules adapted to store said data from said one or more data sources, a cataloger module adapted to construct a new concept from said high-level concept using data from said concept library and library modules, thereby creating a concept construct, and to pass said concept construct to said concept library module for storage as a concept, and an interpreter module adapted to translate said high-level concept into low-level queries using said concepts stored in said construct library and to pass said low-level queries to said one or more search engines.
[0021]
In another aspect of the method, said set of library modules further comprises at least one library module selected from the group comprising a feature library module adapted to store multimedia features, a matching algorithm library module adapted to store matching algorithms, and a constraint library module adapted to store feature constraints.
[0022]
In another aspect of the method, each said library module further comprises an application program interface to receive said data from a said data source.
[0023]
In another aspect of the method, said cataloger module further performs the steps of selecting a set of concept features from said feature library module, selecting a set of concepts from said concept library module for use as child-concepts, and selecting a set of constraints on said child concepts from said constraint library module.
[0024]
In another aspect of the method, each said concept comprises a triplet of a set of child-concepts, a set of features, and a set of relationships.
[0025]
In another aspect of the method, said concepts comprise a hierarchical fuzzy graph data tree-structure comprising nodes, aggregation edges, and association edges and wherein said nodes correspond to said concepts and said features, said aggregation edges correspond to parent-child relationships, and said association edges correspond to said constraints.
[0026]
In another aspect of the method, said edges are weighted.
[0027]
In another aspect of the method, a matching algorithm comprises
GetNextMatch( ),
AssignNextMatch( ), and ShiftNextMatch( ) procedures, wherein:
 said GetNextMatch( ) procedure comprises the steps:
testqueue: if queue.Empty( ), return NULL;
head −−> queue.Pop( );
if head.Complete( ), return head,
head2 −−> head.Copy( );
head2.AssignNextMatch( );
if head2.Valid( ), queue.Push(head2);
head.ShiftNextMatch( );
queue.Push(head);
Goto testqueue;
 said AssignNextMatch( ) procedure comprises the steps:
child −−> GetNextUnassigned( );
child.match_ptr++;
if (child.match_ptr} == NULL), then,
child.match_ptr −−> child.GetNextMatch( );
Make child an assigned node;
 said ShiftNextMatch( ) procedure comprises the steps:
Child −−> GetNextUnassigned( );
child. match_ptr++;
if (child.match_ptr == NULL),
then, child.match_ptr −−> child.GetNextMatch( ), wherein
variables head, head2, and child, all correspond to concept nodes;
variable queue denotes
a priority queue of the corresponding concept node;
and match_ptr is a pointer to the next
possible match for a given concept node;
Pop( ) is a method to get the next node off the
priority queue; Push( ) is a method to put a node on the priority queue;
Empty( ) is a method to check if the priority queue is empty;
Copy( ) is a method to copy a node;
Complete( ) is a method to check if the children assignment is complete;
Valid( ) is a
method to check if the children assignment meets the constraints; and
GetNextUnassigned( ) is a method to select a variable that is unassigned.
 Disclosed is a matching algorithm comprising GetNextMatch( ),
AssignNextMatch( ), and ShiftNextMatch( ) procedures, wherein:
 said GetNextMatch( ) procedure comprises the steps:
testqueue: if queue.Empty( ), return NULL;
head −−> queue.Pop( );
if head.Complete( ), return head,
head2 −−> head.Copy( );
head2.AssignNextMatch( );
if head2.Valid( ), queue.Push(head2);
head.ShiftNextMatch( );
queue.Push(head);
Goto testqueue;
 said AssignNextMatch( ) procedure comprises the steps:
child −−> GetNextUnassigned( );
child.match_ptr++;
if (child.match_ptr} == NULL),
then, child.match_ptr −−> child.GetNextMatch( );
Make child an assigned node;
 said ShiftNextMatch( ) procedure comprises the steps:
Child −−> GetNextUnassigned( );
child.match_ptr++;
if (child.match_ptr == NULL),
then, child.match_ptr −−> child.GetNextMatch( ), wherein
variables head, head2, and child, all correspond to concept nodes;
variable queue denotes
a priority queue of the corresponding concept node;
and match_ptr is a pointer to the next
possible match for a given concept node;
Pop( ) is a method to get the next node off the
priority queue; Push( ) is a method to put a node on the priority queue;
Empty( ) is a method to check if the priority queue is empty;
Copy( ) is a method to copy a node;
Complete( ) is a method to check if the children assignment is complete;
Valid( ) is a
method to check if the children assignment meets the constraints; and
GetNextUnassigned( ) is a method to select a variable that is unassigned.
[0028]
Disclosed is a program storage device readable by machine, tangibly embodying a program of instructions executable by the machine to perform method steps for querying stored multimedia data, said method steps comprising receiving into an intermediate level a high-level concept from a user describing data to be retrieved, translating, in said intermediate level, said high-level concept into low-level queries by using system pre-defined high-level concepts, transferring said low-level queries to a low level comprising one or more search engines; said one or more search engines performing a query of the stored multimedia information using said low-level queries.
[0029]
In another aspect of the program storage device, said intermediate level comprises a set of library modules, said set of library modules comprising a concept library module for storing concepts, and one or more library modules adapted to store said data from said one or more data sources, a cataloger module adapted to construct a new concept from said high-level concept using data from said concept library and library modules, thereby creating a concept construct, and to pass said concept construct to said concept library module for storage as a concept, and an interpreter module adapted to translate said high-level concept into low-level queries using said concepts stored in said construct library and to pass said low-level queries to said one or more search engines.
[0030]
In another aspect of the program storage device, said set of library modules further comprises at least one library module selected from the group comprising a feature library module adapted to store multimedia features, a matching algorithm library module adapted to store matching algorithms, and a constraint library module adapted to store feature constraints.
[0031]
In another aspect of the program storage device, each said library module further comprises an application program interface to receive said data from a said data source.
[0032]
In another aspect of the program storage device, said cataloger module further performs the steps of selecting a set of concept features from said feature library module, selecting a set of concepts from said concept library module for use as child-concepts, and selecting a set of constraints on said child concepts from said constraint library module.
[0033]
In another aspect of the program storage device, said each said concept comprises a triplet of a set of child-concepts, a set of features, and a set of relationships.
[0034]
In another aspect of the program storage device, said concepts comprise a hierarchical fuzzy graph data tree-structure comprising nodes, aggregation edges, and association edges and wherein said nodes correspond to said concepts and said features, said aggregation edges correspond to parent-child relationships, and said association edges correspond to said constraints.
[0035]
In another aspect of the program storage device, said edges are weighted.
[0036]
In another aspect of the program storage device, a matching algorithm comprises GetNextMatch( ), AssignNextMatch( ), and ShiftNextMatch( ) procedures, wherein:
[0037]
said GetNextMatch( ) procedure comprises the steps:
testqueue: if queue.Empty( ), return NULL,
head −−> queue.Pop( );
if head.Complete( ), return head;
head2 −−> head.Copy( );
head2.AssignNextMatch( );
if head2.Valid( ), queue.Push(head2);
head.ShiftNextMatch( );
queue.Push(head);
Goto testqueue;
 said AssignNextMatch( ) procedure comprises the steps:
child −−> GetNextUnassigned( );
child.match_ptr++;
if (child.match_ptr} == NULL),
then, child.match_ptr −−> child.GetNextMatch( );
Make child an assigned node;
 said ShiftNextMatch( ) procedure comprises the steps:
Child −−> GetNextUnassigned( );
child.match_ptr++;
if(child.match_ptr == NULL),
then, child.match_ptr −−> child.GetNextMatch( ), wherein
variables head, head2, and child, all correspond to concept nodes;
variable queue denotes
a priority queue of the corresponding concept node;
and match_ptr is a pointer to the next
possible match for a given concept node;
Pop( ) is a method to get the next node off the
priority queue; Push( ) is a method to put a node on the priority queue;
Empty( ) is a method to check if the priority queue is empty;
Copy( ) is a method to copy a node;
Complete( ) is a method to check if the children assignment is complete;
Valid( ) is a
method to check if the children assignment meets the constraints; and
GetNextUnassigned( ) is a method to select a variable that is unassigned.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0038]
FIG. 1 depicts an overview of the invention.
[0039]
FIG. 2 depicts an embodiment of the architecture of the invention.
[0040]
FIG. 3 shows an example of a semantic concept.
[0041]
FIG. 4 illustrates an algorithm of the invention for the query.
[0042]
FIG. 5 depicts a block diagram of an algorithm for fuzzy joins.
[0043]
FIG. 6 depicts an example of a fuzzy join problem.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
[0044]
This invention introduces a generalized query framework utilizing concept-based querying and proposes a rich representation for the concepts. In addition to improving usability, the invention enhances query power due to the support of complex constraints, and formulates the most general concept representation that can be supported efficiently by the system. By supporting arbitrary features and constraints in the definitions of concepts, an efficient method for searching of multimedia data with powerful concept definitions is established.
[0045]
Referring to FIG. 1, there is depicted an embodiment of the invention wherein there is introduced an intermediate level of functionality in the form of a concept translation engine 106 between a user's concept 104 of stored multimedia objects and a database system's actual low-level internal representations of those objects as seen by one or more search engines 110, 112, 114. The user 102 specifies a high-level concept 104 for each database query and the concept translation engine 106 translates the concept 104 into low-level features stored in a concept repository 108. The concept translation engine 106 also performs an enhanced content-based query by passing the low-level features to the underlying database search engines 110-114 to use as the search criteria. The system allows the user to reuse a rich set of predefined semantic concepts without having to define or express them explicitly and provides a flexible mechanism for combining such concepts into even higher level composite concepts via inter-concept relationships (or constraints), thus enabling the user to express powerful queries with an interface close to his mental model.
[0046]
The novel intermediate level 106 makes the mechanics of the actual search transparent to the user 102, without limiting the user's power in specifying relevant features and constraints. The system provides a uniform and natural API for specifying query concepts, which are then internally translated to the specific search engines' (110 through 114) specifications. This modularized design provides a simplified interface and improved usability, while preserving, or even enhancing, the power of content-based search.
[0047]
Referring to FIG. 2, there is shown an embodiment of the invention that unifies searches, joins, and nested views, allowing any of them to be crisp or fuzzy. The database system combines and generalizes query models for both structured and non-structured data and is based on the query-by-concept paradigm, where concepts are essentially generalized views and are represented by a fuzzy hierarchical graph data structure.
[0048]
The specific details of the concept representation are discussed below and the design is general enough that it allows arbitrary user-defined features, constraints, and matching algorithms to be plugged in the framework. The same concept representation is used for describing both queries and data so there is a unified query language and data annotation language. The internal concept representation can be mapped to and from SQL and XML. The newly emerging MPEG-7 meta-data standard (based on XML) may be utilized as the interface to the concept representation. By adopting MPEG-7 as the concept definition language, one automatically inherit tools for expressing, manipulating, interpreting, and querying MPEG-7 descriptions. For example, the MPEG-7 Visual Annotation Tool developed by IBM can be used as a visual query interface to the proposed framework.
[0049]
Architecture
[0050]
Referring more specifically to FIG. 2, there are provided a set of library modules 222, 226, 230, 234 that collectively are used to define concepts. Once defined, concepts can be used in a variety of applications 244 such as querying, filtering, annotation, and classification, among others. The library modules 222, 226, 230, 234 thereby are part of an intermediate layer between the user's application and the actual search engines. The database system utilizes one or more application program interfaces (APIs) to exploit date from a variety of sources, such as data from heterogeneous sources 202-208, from different matching (or join) algorithms 210-216, and from arbitrary constraints 218 and 220, including user-defined constraints 220. Generally, a library module will be provided for each type of data source, hence there is shown a feature library module 222, a matching algorithm library module 226, and a constraint library module 230.
[0051]
The feature library 222 contains a set of features, such as color histograms, textures, shape, motion, and the like that may be thought of as concept attributes and may derive from various sources, such as traditional databases 204, multimedia search engines 206, MPEG-7 annotated data 202, and the like. The types of features may correspond to MPEG-7 descriptors and description schemes, or may be user defined 208 through the API. The feature library 222 may also contain a list of primitive built-in features 224 such as those corresponding to atomic data types. In a sense, the feature library reflects the capabilities of the underlying search engines. For example, if the system uses query-by-image-content (QBIC) 206 to extract a particular type of texture feature, then that feature would be present in the library so that concepts can reflect searches on that feature. Treating all features in such a unified manner provides more power to the system because concepts can use the capabilities of multiple back-end search engines transparently to the user.
[0052]
The matching algorithm library 226 comprises a set of join algorithms having the same interface that each take an ordered set of matches for a set of children concepts and compute an ordered set of matches for a parent concept defined through the children. In this process, all algorithms ensure that any constraints defined in the parent concept are met when combining the results from the child concepts. Examples of such join algorithms include Fagin's algorithm 212, which is described in detail in R. Fagin, FUZZY QUERIES IN MULTIMEDIA DATABASE SYSTEMS, Proc. of the 1998 ACM SIGACT-SIGMOD-SIGART Symposium on Principles of Database Systems (1998); and R. Fagin, COMBINING FUZZY INFORMATION FROM MULTIPLE SYSTEMS, Journal of Computer and System Sciences, 58:83-99, 1999 [an extended abstract of which appears in Proc. Fifteenth ACM Symp. on Principles of Database Systems (PODS '96), Montreal, pp. 216-226 (1996)]; the disclosures of all of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety. Another example of a join algorithm is the MARS query tree algorithm 214, which is described in detail in M. Ortega et al., INFORMATION RETRIEVAL OVER MULTIMEDIA DOCUMENTS, Technical Report TR-MARS-99-11, University of California, Irvine, Calif., (1999); and M. Ortega et al., SUPPORTING RANKED BOOLEAN SIMILARITY QUERIES IN MARS, IEEE Trans. on Knowledge and Data Engineering, 10, November-December (1998), the disclosures of all of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety. Yet another join algorithm useful with the invention is the SPROC algorithm 210, which is described in detail in C. S. Li, J. R. Smith et al., SEQUENTIAL PROCESSING FOR CONTENT-BASED RETRIEVAL OF COMPOSITE OBJECTS, Storage and Retrieval of image and Video Databases, VI, SPIE (1998), the disclosures of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.
[0053]
The Fagin and MARS algorithms do not really work with any constraints but simply provide Boolean conjunction and disjunction, while the SPROC algorithm allows arbitrary fuzzy constraints. Other algorithms 216 can be specified as long as they conform to the established interface. The matching algorithm library 226 can also contain a list of pre-implemented algorithms 228.
[0054]
The constraint library 230 is simply a collection of constraints, or relationships, defined on a single feature. Examples include spatial or temporal constraints, feature similarity constraints, and the like. The library has an API so that users can define their own constraints by specifying the feature they apply to, as well as the number of arguments (or concepts) that they relate. It also has a set of built-in constraints 232 that are pre-defined in the system.
[0055]
Finally, the concept library 234 contains a list of pre-defined concepts 236 either built into the system as shown, shipped as concept library plug-in modules, or previously defined by users, or a combination thereof. The process of defining new concepts is performed by a concept cataloger module 240, and comprises the following steps: (1) selecting a set of concept features from the feature library module 222; (2) selecting a set of child concepts from the concept library module 234; and (3) selecting a set of constraints on the child concepts from the constraint library module 230. Any of these sets can be empty. The combination of the specified child concepts, along with the relationships among them, form a concept construct 200′ with the specified features. The concept construct 200′ is then inserted in the concept library 234 as a new concept for later reuse.
[0056]
Given a set of pre-defined concepts stored away in the concept library module, an application 244 can then use a concept-based interface wherein any input concepts 200 are looked up in the concept library 234 by a concept interpreter 242 and translated into the corresponding features, sub-concepts, and constraints. Those components are then used to form low-level queries to the search engines and the results 248 are aggregated back from the data sources 246 using the specified join algorithms, and presented to the user 238. The concept cataloger 240, concept interpreter 242, and the concept library 234, have similar functionality as the corresponding modules in the CAMEL system described in A. Natsev et al., CAMEL: CONCEPT ANNOTATED IMAGE LIBRARIES, Storage and Retrieval for Image and Video Databases, San Jose, Calif., SPIE (January 2001), the disclosures of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety. However, because of the more complex concept representation model of the invention, here they are more sophisticated and make use of added feature 222, constraint 230, and matching algorithm 226 libraries.
[0057]
Concepts
[0058]
Referring to FIG. 3, there is shown an embodiment of the invention wherein concepts are defined recursively. Each concept may be defined as a triplet C, F, R, wherein C denotes a set of children concepts (e.g., objects, like car), F denotes a set of features (e.g., color, shape, texture, etc.), and R denotes a set of relationships (e.g., constraints, such as to the left-of or near) among elements of C. When C, and therefore R, are the empty sets, the resulting concepts are described as primitive, otherwise they are referred to as composite. Intuitively, primitive concepts represent basic multimedia entities, such as image regions (defined by spatial location and shape, or by homogeneity constraint on a color or texture feature), video segments (specified by a time interval in the video sequence), and the like. Composite objects (or higher-level semantic concepts) are then derived from lower-level ones by imposing inter-object constraints upon them.
[0059]
In FIG. 3 there is depicted a hierarchical fuzzy graph data structure that resembles a tree-structured graph. Nodes in the representation correspond to concepts, and contain features as well as constraints. There are two types of edges in the data structure: aggregation edges, representing parent-child relationships, and association edges, representing inter-sibling constraints. Note that for simplicity, the association edges only represent binary relationships although the actual representation allows n-ary constraints in general. The aggregation edges also have associated weights, reflecting the relative importance of the child concepts in the parent's definition. One could add weights to the association edges as well, but, for purposes of simplifying this example, all constraints will be treated as being equally important. The tree structure shown is amenable to computer database representation, wherein the nodes may be embodied as blocks of data and the edges as pointers or handles thereto.
[0060]
FIG. 3 illustrates an example of the concept of scoring a goal in a soccer game, represented at the topmost node 300. The concept is defined as a sequence of three events represented by three nodes: a player kicking the ball 304, the goal-keeper not catching the ball 308, and the ball entering the goal 312. These events are themselves concepts defined recursively by means of primitive concepts, namely player 316; ball 324, 334, 336; net 344; and goalie 326. The relationships that make sense in this scenarios are a temporal ordering 306, 310, 314 of the higher level events 304, 308, 312, as well as several spatial 322 342, scale 320, 330, 340, and motion constraints 318, 328, 338, 332 on the primitive concepts (i.e., ball moving away from player, ball inside the net, etc.). Overall, there may be implemented a time constraint 302 on the total length of the sequence (the three events need to occur in a relatively short period of time for them to be significant). One could also express the time constraint as a sequence of proximity constraints on the time stamps of the three higher level events 304, 308, 312.
[0061]
Weight factors, 0.1, 0.3, and 0.6, on the edges represent the relative importance of the concepts with respect to their siblings. Note that in the definition of the top- level concept 300 neither of its first two child concepts 304 or 308 are absolutely mandatory. For example, a player may head the ball into the net rather than kicking it, or the goalie may not even be near the ball at the time of a kick so that there would be no attempt to catch the ball. The only required event is that the ball enters the net 312 and so it has the highest weight of the three child events, namely 0.6. The other two sub-concepts 304 and 308 are appropriately weighted so that the less relevant (or further in distance or time) an event is from the critical scoring event, the less weight it has. On the other hand, in the recursive definition at the leaf level, all primitive concepts are necessary for the definition of the parent ones and are therefore weighted as equally important (i.e., weight 0.5 for each).
[0062]
Concept Matching Algorithms
[0063]
The concept matching, or fuzzy join, algorithm of the invention is based on the A* search algorithm and its variations, well known in the Artificial Intelligence (AI) art. Assume a concept C derived by joining several children concepts C 1, . . . , Cn. All children nodes are treated as variables, and the list of matches for each node as the list of possible values it can take. Therefore, the problem of finding a valid match combination with maximum score reduces to the problem of finding an assignment for the children nodes, subject to a list of constraints, that maximizes the score. Because each possible value for a variable corresponds to a score, the score of an assignment is simply the aggregation of the individual scores. For assignments that are complete (that is, all children variables have assigned values), the score is unique. For incomplete assignments, the score can be upper-bounded by taking an upper boundary (e.g., a value of 1.0) for the individual score of every unassigned variable. If the items are scanned in decreasing order of their scores, one can simply take the score value of the previous item as an upper-bound estimate of the next score value. Referring to FIG. 4, this provides a heuristic creating an upper bound for the score of incomplete assignments, such as may be represented in pseudocode, for example:
Procedure GetNextMatch( ):
testqueue:	if queue.Empty( )	(block 404)
return NULL	(block 400)
head −−> queue.Pop( )
if head.Complete( )	(block 406)
return head	(block 402)
head2 −−> head.Copy( )	(block 408)
head2.AssignNextMatch( )	(block 410)
if head2.Valid( )	(block 418)
queue.Push(head2)	(block 416)
head.ShiftNextMatch( )	(block 414)
queue.Push(head)	(block 412)
Goto testqueue
where the methods AssignNextMatch( ) and
ShiftNextMatch( ) may be executed as follows:
Procedure AssignNextMatch( ):
child −−> GetNextUnassigned( )
child.match_ptr++
if (child.match_ptr} == NULL), then
child.match_ptr −−> child.GetNextMatch( )
Make child an assigned node
Procedure ShiftNextMatch( ):
Child −−> GetNextUnassigned( )
child.match_ptr++
if (child.match_ptr == NULL), then
child.match_ptr −−> child.GetNextMatch( )
where the variables head, head2, and child,
all correspond to concept nodes; the queue
variable denotes the priority queue of the corresponding concept node;
and the match_ptr is simply a pointer to the next possible match for a
given concept node. The priority queue supports operations Pop( ),
Push( ), and Empty( ), which are self-explanatory. The
concept nodes have methods Copy( ),
Complete( ) (for checking if the children assignment is complete),
Valid( ) (for checking if the children assignment meets the
constraints), GetNextUnassigned( )
(for selecting a variable that is unassigned), and the
methods listed, namely GetNextMatch( ),
ShiftNextMatch( ), and AssignNextMatch( ).
[0064]
Preferably, there will be maintained a priority queue of all possible assignments (complete and incomplete) ordered by the upper-bound estimate of their scores. Assignments may then be processed from the top of the queue until the head corresponds to a complete assignment. If that is the case, all incomplete assignments will have scores smaller than the complete assignment at the head of the queue, and therefore, that assignment corresponds to the next best answer. During the processing loop, the algorithm simply takes the head of the queue, selects one unassigned variable, and creates two new assignments. The first one is identical to the original assignment, except that the chosen variable is now assigned to the next possible match. The second one is similar but it simply moves the pointer to the next available match without assigning the variable. This allows the algorithm to later backtrack and consider the other possible matches for the chosen variable. Both assignments are inserted back into the priority queue according to their new score estimates if and only if they satisfy the constraints.
[0065]
One important property to note from the above pseudocode is the recursive invocation of method GetNextMatch( ) from methods ShiftNextMatch( ), and AssignNextMatch( ). This is why the algorithm works on hierarchy of concepts—when computing the next best match for a concept at level L, the algorithm recursively invokes the same subroutine for some of the children at level L+1, where increasing levels correspond to deeper levels in the tree. This recursive mechanism enables nested concepts like the ones in FIG. 3 to be matched efficiently. The efficiency comes from the fact that the recursive call is executed only if needed, using a pull-based model (i.e., a demand-driven paradigm). The heuristic of processing nodes in order of their score estimates essentially tries to minimize the recursive invocations only to the ones that are really necessary. In contrast, a naive approach—typically used for crisp joins in databases—would compute all matches at all children nodes before it starts materializing the matches at the parent node.
[0066]
Referring to FIGS. 5 and 6, the algorithm of the invention is illustrated for the oil exploration example set forth below. Assume two concepts, A and B, to join ( 506 and 508), and the score aggregation function is simply the weighted average of the two scores, with weights 0.7 and 0.3. Concept A (506) contains three possible instances 510 and concept B (508) has only two instances 512. Suppose also that the on-top-of constraint of the example in FIG. 6 is satisfied only for matching combinations (A1, B1), (A2, B1), (A3, B2). The final solutions are listed in the top left corner 500 of the figure, while the top right corner shows the first four iterations of priority queue processing 504 (until the top answer is identified). Each assignment in the priority queue 504 contains a score estimate and an ID of the next possible instance from concept A or B, respectively. The unshaded squares denote unassigned variables and score estimates, while the shaded squares contain variable assignments and exact scores. The lower right corner contains the decision tree 514 for the search process, with each node corresponding to a variable assignment (A1-A3 and B1-B2). The nodes in the tree denote all possible variable assignments and the numbers (1-9) next to the nodes denote the order in which the corresponding node will be visited by the search algorithm. Note that even though the branch of the tree corresponding to the best answer (A1, B1) will be traversed at step 2, it will not be output as the best answer until step 3, when it will appear at the head of the queue 504. The crossed out terminal nodes correspond to invalid overall assignments, and the numbers below the other terminal nodes correspond to their aggregated scores.
[0067]
The hierarchical nature of the algorithm is illustrated in FIG. 4 for a single join level only. If we had multiple join levels, as in FIG. 3, the matches returned for the AB node 502, for example, would become part of the assignments priority queue 504 at the parent node. In that case, the steps in FIG. 4 will be executed each time the parent node needs to get the next match for the AB node 502. Note that the GetNextMatch( ) method can be implemented in different ways at any node in the query tree so that an arbitrary user-defined algorithm can be plugged instead. For example, if the join type is known to be uniquely constrained, we may plug in Fagin's or MARS algorithm or an equivalent. If it is a join with fuzzy constraints, then we could use SPROC or an equivalent. This makes the proposed framework and algorithm very powerful tools for solving real-world problems.
[0068]
Concept Matching Problem Complexity and Alternatives
[0069]
In the case of joins with crisp constraints, we cannot guarantee polynomial time but we can trade the correctness of the algorithm for a running time guarantee. Heuristics that can limit the running time by approximating the optimal answer will be found useful in the invention and are as follows:
[0070]
fixed length—the simplest heuristic that limits the size of the priority queue to a certain fixed threshold T so that the total running time is polynomial. The threshold may vary for each query but is the same for all nodes within a query tree. For example, it may be polynomial in the number k of desired answers, or proportional to the expected number of matches to be scanned from each fuzzy stream. If the queue length is set sufficiently liberally, this should not affect the correctness in most cases because the assignments that will be discarded will be the ones with the lowest score estimates.
[0071]
fixed rank—this is a heuristic that is largely similar to the above one but has the following distinction. With the fixed length heuristic, when an attempt is made to insert a new complete or partial solution to the priority queue, the attempt will fail if the current queue size has reached the threshold. With the fixed rank heuristic, an additional check will be made to compare the score of the last item in the queue with the one of the new solution. If the new one is higher, then it will be inserted in the queue after deleting the last queue element first. Thus, this heuristic tries to maintain a queue of items with rank smaller than the given threshold. Because the ultimate goal is to output the items according to their final rank, this heuristic is more promising than the previous one.
[0072]
fixed score—this heuristic allows the queue length to vary so long as all the assignments in the queue have score estimates above a certain threshold T. Again, the score cut-off threshold may vary for different queries, but will preferably be fixed within a single query. For example, we may set the threshold to 0.5 so that all assignments with a lower score estimate are disregarded. In practice, this should not affect the correctness of the result although it is theoretically possible that an assignment that was discarded by the heuristic at level i should appear in a good solution at level i−1 (i.e., the level above) simply because it was the only assignment that satisfied all the constraints.
[0073]
fixed gap—this heuristic enforces the gap between the scores of the first and last item in the queue to be less than a certain threshold T. This heuristic is equivalent to the fixed score heuristic above if the top assignment has a score of 1.0. In other cases, it compensates for skewed (i.e., very small) scores by comparing the candidate score relative to the current top score. Thus, given the same threshold, this heuristic is more liberal than the above one and allows more assignments to be considered. For example, the threshold may be set to discard assignments that have scores smaller than the top score by at least 0.5.
[0074]
fixed ratio—this heuristic enforce the ratio between the scores of the first and last item in the queue to be less than a certain threshold T. This is similar to the fixed gap heuristic but it considers the relative score difference rather than the absolute one (e.g., drop assignments that have scores more than 100 times smaller than the top score).
[0075]
variable threshold—this heuristic is a more complicated counterpart for the above heuristics, wherein the thresholds vary in accordance to run-time statistics, selectivity estimation, or other methods for dynamic threshold estimation. Those may include estimates on the number of items that will need to be scanned from each stream using results from Fagin's approach, for example. Another embodiment is to convert the top-k query into a score range query using selectivity statistics. Using the children weights, and a best-case estimate on matches, we could propagate the score ranges from the root down the concept tree by estimating the children's score ranges from the parent's one. Each node will then get a different threshold value that will be used to cut off the size of the priority queue.
EXAMPLE
[0076]
Referring to FIG. 6, an example demonstrating the workings of the invention is the match of strata structures across boreholes in oil exploration. Petroleum companies selectively drill boreholes in oil-rich areas in order to estimate the size of underground oil reservoirs. Instrument readings of physical parameters, such as conductivity, as well as images of rock samples from the borehole, are indexed by depth, as in the example shown in FIG. 6. Traditionally, experienced human interpreters (usually geologists) will label the rock samples and try to co-register the labels of one borehole with those of many other boreholes in the neighboring area. The matched labels are then fed into 3-D modeling software to reconstruct the strata structure underground, from which the reservoir size is deduced.
[0077]
The process of rock layer labeling and cross-bore co-registration can be significantly accelerated by content-based image retrieval techniques. An interpreter can issue a query to locate similar looking rock layers in all borehole images. Consider the example in FIG. 6 where the query template comprises two rock types. The query specifies their spatial relations to be “near” and one “on top of” the other.
[0078]
This scenario is an example of combining the results of two fuzzy searches using constraints that are both crisp (rock A is above rock B) and fuzzy (rock A is near rock B). We call such queries “fuzzy joins” with “crisp and fuzzy constraints”. According to the type of search results to be joined (crisp or fuzzy) and the type of constraints used for the join (again, crisp or fuzzy), we can have four join combinations. Of those, currently available database systems typically support only the crisp joins with crisp constraints. When it comes to introducing any fuzziness, such database systems are very inefficient at best, or completely unusable at worst. The multimedia search systems, on the other hand, support fuzziness in the searches themselves but either do not really allow any joins of the search results, or support the joins in a very limited and domain-specific scope.
[0079]
Another feature that receives very limited support in both traditional and multimedia databases is the definition of nested (or recursive) views of fuzzy result sets. For example, building on the above application scenario, we can define the concept of DELTA_LOBE as a sequence of SANDSTONE on top of SHALE on top of SILTSTONE. The concepts of SANDSTONE, SHALE, and SILTSTONE, can be recursively defined by specifying samples of rock textures that fall in the corresponding class. Using the previously defined views for SANDSTONE, SHALE, and SILTSTONE, one might want to define DELTA LOBE view using the following SQL statement:
CREATE VIEW DELTA_LOBE AS
SELECT *	
FROM	SANDSTONE SD, SHALE SH, SILTSTONE SL
WHERE	ABOVE(SD.DEPTH, SH.DEPTH) = 1 AND
ABOVE(SH.DEPTH, SL.DEPTH) = 1 AND
NEAR(SD.DEPTH, SH.DEPTH) = 1 AND
NEAR(SH.DEPTH, SL.DEPTH) = 1
[0080]
Even though conceptually there is nothing new in this definition, in practice it is very hard to support such nested fuzzy views efficiently. The reason is that due to the fuzziness, getting even a single candidate from the top view may involve scanning all candidates of the child views, which would be very time consuming. An algorithm for determining the best match from the top view would require examining all possible combinations of matches from the children views in order to compute their scores.
[0081]
On the other hand, there are numerous application scenarios that, like the one above, can benefit greatly from fuzzy searches, fuzzy joins, and fuzzy nested views. In addition to searching, such technology can be used for filtering, annotation, classification, and inferencing purposes, among others. For example, selecting a proper helicopter landing space for a forest fire may involve a satellite image search with constraints on landing space size and flatness, proximity to water sources and to the fire itself. The decision to buy a house in a certain area may include criteria about proximity to schools or hospitals, termite populations, as well as demographic factors. Ideally, all of these criteria should be incorporated into a single query where the system will perform separate queries to different sub-systems and will integrate the results according to the specified criteria. The range of application domains that can benefit from a single unified view that incorporates both fuzzy and crisp queries, as well as their joins and nested views, include entertainment videos (e.g., movies, news and sports feeds, etc.); aerial, satellite, seismic, or medical imagery; time series and stock marked data; e-commerce for personalized virtual product catalogs; and music shopping, among others.
[0082]
As can be seen, the invention solves the problem of joining multiple fuzzy result sets where the join condition is expressed as a list of arbitrary constraints on the result tuples and can do so to hierarchies of such constrained fuzzy joins. The invention is useful in important multimedia applications and demonstrates superior performance over conventional structured-query models, as well as query-by-content models.
[0083]
In can be seen that the algorithms of the invention enable high-level querying of multimedia data by imposing arbitrary domain-specific constraints among multimedia objects and is at least as efficient as Fagin's state-of-the-art fuzzy join algorithm for uniquely constrained fuzzy joins, or joins based on identical keys. However, the invention also generalizes to Cartesian join scenarios that are unsupported in the art. In particular, the invention can support joins with fuzzy and crisp constraints. It is also suitable for handling multiple levels of abstraction, or concept hierarchies, which is typical of concepts arising from multimedia databases. The invention may be modified with one of several heuristics for trading off correctness (i.e., lack of false dismissals) for execution time.
[0084]
It is to be understood that all physical quantities disclosed herein, unless explicitly indicated otherwise, are not to be construed as exactly equal to the quantity disclosed, but rather about equal to the quantity disclosed. Further, the mere absence of a qualifier such as “about” or the like, is not to be construed as an explicit indication that any such disclosed physical quantity is an exact quantity, irrespective of whether such qualifiers are used with respect to any other physical quantities disclosed herein.
[0085]
While preferred embodiments have been shown and described, various modifications and substitutions may be made thereto without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly, it is to be understood that the present invention has been described by way of illustration only, and such illustrations and embodiments as have been disclosed herein are not to be construed as limiting to the claims.
Claims (18)
Hide Dependent 
What is claimed is:
1. A method for querying stored multimedia data in a computer system, comprising:
receiving into an intermediate level a high-level concept from a user describing data to be retrieved;
translating, in said intermediate level, said high-level concept into low-level queries by using system pre-defined high-level concepts; and
transferring said low-level queries to a low level comprising one or more search engines; said one or more search engines performing a query of the stored multimedia information using said low-level queries.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein said intermediate level comprises:
a set of library modules, said set of library modules comprising:
a concept library module for storing concepts;
one or more library modules adapted to store said data from said one or more data sources;
a cataloger module adapted to construct a new concept from said high-level concept using data from said concept library and library modules, thereby creating a concept construct, and to pass said concept construct to said concept library module for storage as a concept; and
an interpreter module adapted to translate said high-level concept into low-level queries using said concepts stored in said construct library and to pass said low-level queries to said one or more search engines.
3. The method of claim 2 wherein said set of library modules further comprises at least one library module selected from the group comprising:
a feature library module adapted to store multimedia features;
a matching algorithm library module adapted to store matching algorithms; and
a constraint library module adapted to store feature constraints.
4. The method of claim 3 wherein each said library module further comprises an application program interface to receive said data from a said data source.
5. The method of claim 3 wherein said cataloger module further performs the steps of:
selecting a set of concept features from said feature library module;
selecting a set of concepts from said concept library module for use as child-concepts; and
selecting a set of constraints on said child concepts from said constraint library module.
6. The method of claim 1 wherein said each said concept comprises a triplet of a set of child-concepts, a set of features, and a set of relationships.
7. The method of claim 6 wherein said concepts comprise a hierarchical fuzzy graph data tree-structure comprising nodes, aggregation edges, and association edges and wherein:
said nodes correspond to said concepts and said features;
said aggregation edges correspond to parent-child relationships; and
said association edges correspond to said constraints.
8. The method of claim 7 wherein said edges are weighted.
9. The method of claim 3 further comprising a matching algorithm comprising GetNextMatch( ), AssignNextMatch( ), and ShiftNextMatch( ) procedures, wherein:
said GetNextMatch( ) procedure comprises the steps: testqueue: if queue.Empty( ); return NULL, head −−> queue.Pop( ); if head.Complete( ); return head; head2 −−> head.Copy( ); head2.AssignNextMatch( ); if head2.Valid( ); queue.Push(head2); head.ShiftNextMatch( ); queue.Push(head); Goto testqueue; said AssignNextMatch( ) procedure comprises the steps: child −−> GetNextUnassigned( ); child.match_ptr++; if(child.match_ptr} == NULL), then; child.match_ptr −−> child.GetNextMatch( ); Make child an assigned node; said ShiftNextMatch( ) procedure comprises the steps: Child −−> GetNextUnassigned( ); child.match_ptr++; if(child.match_ptr == NULL), then; child.match_ptr −−> child.GetNextMatch( ); wherein variables head, head2, and child, all correspond to concept nodes; variable queue denotes a priority queue of the corresponding concept node; and match_ptr is a pointer to the next possible match for a given concept node; Pop( ) is a method to get the next node off the priority queue; Push( ) is a method to put a node on the priority queue; Empty( ) is a method to check if the priority queue is empty; Copy( ) is a method to copy a node; Complete( ) is a method to check if the children assignment is complete; Valid( ) is a method to check if the children assignment meets the constraints; and GetNextUnassigned( ) is a method to select a variable that is unassigned. 10. A matching algorithm comprising GetNextMatch( ), AssignNextMatch( ), and ShiftNextMatch( ) procedures, wherein: said GetNextMatch( ) procedure comprises the steps: testqueue: if queue.Empty( ); return NULL, head −−> queue.Pop( ); if head.Complete( ); return head; head2 −−> head.Copy( ); head2.AssignNextMatch( ); if head2.Valid( ); queue.Push(head2); head.ShiftNextMatch( ); queue.Push(head); Goto testqueue; said AssignNextMatch( ) procedure comprises the steps: child −−> GetNextUnassigned( ); child.match_ptr++; if(child.match_ptr} == NULL), then; child.match_ptr −−> child.GetNextMatch( ); Make child an assigned node; said ShiftNextMatch( ) procedure comprises the steps: Child −−> GetNextUnassigned( ); child.match_ptr++; if(child.match_ptr == NULL), then; child.match ptr −−> child.GetNextMatch( ); wherein variables head, head2, and child, all correspond to concept nodes; variable queue denotes a priority queue of the corresponding concept node; and match_ptr is a pointer to the next possible match for a given concept node; Pop( ) is a method to get the next node off the priority queue; Push( ) is a method to put a node on the priority queue; Empty( ) is a method to check if the priority queue is empty; Copy( ) is a method to copy a node; Complete( ) is a method to check if the children assignment is complete; Valid( ) is a method to check if the children assignment meets the constraints; and GetNextUnassigned( ) is a method to select a variable that is unassigned.
11. A program storage device readable by machine, tangibly embodying a program of instructions executable by the machine to perform method steps for querying stored multimedia data, said method steps comprising:
receiving into an intermediate level a high-level concept from a user describing data to be retrieved;
translating, in said intermediate level, said high-level concept into low-level queries by using system pre-defined high-level concepts;
transferring said low-level queries to a low level comprising one or more search engines; said one or more search engines performing a query of the stored multimedia information using said low-level queries.
12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein said intermediate level comprises:
a set of library modules, said set of library modules comprising:
a concept library module for storing concepts; and
one or more library modules adapted to store said data from said one or more data sources;
a cataloger module adapted to construct a new concept from said high-level concept using data from said concept library and library modules, thereby creating a concept construct, and to pass said concept construct to said concept library module for storage as a concept; and
an interpreter module adapted to translate said high-level concept into low-level queries using said concepts stored in said construct library and to pass said low-level queries to said one or more search engines.
13. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said set of library modules further comprises at least one library module selected from the group comprising:
a feature library module adapted to store multimedia features;
a matching algorithm library module adapted to store matching algorithms; and
a constraint library module adapted to store feature constraints.
14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein each said library module further comprises an application program interface to receive said data from a said data source.
15. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein said cataloger module further performs the steps of:
selecting a set of concept features from said feature library module;
selecting a set of concepts from said concept library module for use as child-concepts; and
selecting a set of constraints on said child concepts from said constraint library module.
16. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein said each said concept comprises a triplet of a set of child-concepts, a set of features, and a set of relationships.
17. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein said concepts comprise a hierarchical fuzzy graph data tree-structure comprising nodes, aggregation edges, and association edges and wherein:
said nodes correspond to said concepts and said features;
said aggregation edges correspond to parent-child relationships; and
said association edges correspond to said constraints.
18. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein said edges are weighted.
19. The apparatus of claim 13 further comprising a matching algorithm comprising GetNextMatch( ), AssignNextMatch( ), and ShiftNextMatch( ) procedures, wherein:
said GetNextMatch( ) procedure comprises the steps: testqueue: if queue.Empty( ); return NULL; head −−> queue.Pop( ); if head.Complete( ); return head; head2 −−> head.Copy( ); head2.AssignNextMatch( ); if 2.Valid( ); queue.Pusg(head2); head.ShiftNextMatch( ); queue.Push(head); Goto testqueue; said AssignNextMatch( ) procedure comprises the steps: child −−> GetNextUnassigned( ); child.match_ptr++; if (child.match_ptr} == NULL), then; child.match_ptr −−> child.GetNextMatch( ); Make child an assigned node; said ShiftNextMatch( ) procedure comprises the steps: Child −−> GetNextUnassigned( ); child.match_ptr++; if (child.match_ptr == NULL), then; child.match_ptr −−> child.GetNextMatch( ); wherein variables head, head2, and child, all correspond to concept nodes; variable queue denotes a priority queue of the corresponding concept node; and match_ptr is a pointer to the next possible match for a given concept node; Pop( ) is a method to get the next node off the priority queue; Push( ) is a method to put a node on the priority queue; Empty( ) is a method to check if the priority queue is empty; Copy( ) is a method to copy a node; Complete( ) is a method to check if the children assignment is complete; Valid( ) is a method to check if the children assignment meets the constraints; and GetNextUnassigned( ) is a method to select a variable that is unassigned.

DE112012001750B4：

Description
HINTERGRUND
[0001]
Ausführungsformen der Offenbarung betreffen allgemein Computersoftware und insbesondere die automatisierte Selbstbedienungs-Benutzerunterstützung auf der Grundlage einer Ontologie bereichsspezifischer Informationen.
[0002]
Anwendungen zur automatisierten Selbstbedienungs-Benutzerunterstützung werden üblicherweise von Wirtschaftsunternehmen bereitgestellt, um Kunden bei Anfragen und Problemen im Zusammenhang mit ihren Produkten oder Dienstleistungen zu unterstützen. Derartige Anwendungen können in Dienstprogrammen von Callcentern integriert sein, um den Bedarf an Mitarbeitern hierfür zu minimieren. Anwendungen zur Selbstbedienungs-Benutzerunterstützung können formale Kategorien nutzen, um den Bereich zu beschreiben, in dem erwartete Anfragen und Probleme auftreten können, zum Beispiel einen Bereich über Computerprodukte oder Finanzdienstleistungen. Die Anwendungen zur Selbstbedienungs-Benutzerunterstützung setzen oftmals voraus, dass die Anfrage- und Problemkategorien wohlbekannt und durch die Benutzer leicht zu verstehen sind. Die Anwendungen können ferner voraussetzen, dass die formalen Kategorien allgemeingültige Definitionen aufweisen. Diese Definitionen hängen jedoch oftmals von den unterlagerten Back-End-Supportsystemen ab. Darüber hinaus ziehen es die meisten Benutzer vor, unter Verwendung von Text in einem freien Format ihre Probleme mit ihren eigenen Begriffen zu beschreiben oder ihre Bedürfnisse mit ihren eigenen Worten zu erläutern. Die Begriffe der Benutzer stimmen möglicherweise nicht mit den formalen Problemkategorien oder -beschreibungen überein, die durch das Benutzersupport-System verwaltet werden.
[0003]
Beispielsweise erläutert ein Benutzer ein Problem unter Umständen in Form der Äußerung: „Mein Laptop streikt, wenn ich das Programm XYZ ausführe, nachdem ich mit dem Programm MNO eine Datensicherung gestartet habe.“ Hingegen sind die technischen Supportsysteme des Back-Ends im Unternehmen des Benutzers normalerweise unter Verwendung einer sehr spezifischen Terminologie, z.B. Laptop/Desktop, Betriebssystem, CPU-Typ, Anwendung, Programm, Treiber, Speicher, Sicherung/Wiederherstellung usw. eingestuft. Die Anwendungen zur Selbstbedienungs-Benutzerunterstützung sind daher weniger effektiv, wenn ihre Benutzeroberflächen auf einer systembezogenen Terminologie beruhen, die nicht mit der Terminologie der Benutzer übereinstimmt.
[0004]
Selbst wenn die Benutzer die spezifische systembezogene Terminologie kennen, können sie des Weiteren unter Umständen ihre Fragen nicht in einem Maße formulieren, bei dem zufriedenstellende Ergebnisse zu erwarten sind, es sei denn, ihnen ist bewusst, was zu einer vollständigen Beschreibung eines Problems gehört. Dies ist in der Tatsache begründet, dass die Benutzer den speziellen Bereich nicht kennen, den das Supportsystem nutzt, und nicht mit den Begriffen, Attributen und Beziehungen in diesem Bereich vertraut sind.
[0005]
Deshalb besteht ein Bedarf an verbesserten Systemen und Prozessen, um Benutzern bei der Formulierung von Selbstbedienungsanfragen zu helfen und diese Selbstbedienungs-Benutzeranfragen effektiv zu verarbeiten.
[0006]
PASCA, Marius A.; HARABAGIU, Sandra M. High performance question/answering. In: Proc. 24th annual intern'l ACM SIGIR conference on Research and development in information retrieval. ACM, 2001. S. 366-374. DOI: 10.1145/383952.384025 beschreibt „High Performance Question/Answering“ als eine Methode, bei der Techniken aus der natürlichen Sprachverarbeitung und dem maschinellen Lernen kombiniert werden, um sowohl die Genauigkeit der Antworten als auch die Geschwindigkeit des Systems zu verbessern.
KURZDARSTELLUNG DER OFFENBARUNG
[0007]
Es ist eine Aufgabe der Erfindung, ein verbessertes Verfahren zum Bereitstellen von Informationen mittels Selbstbedienungsbenutzerunterstützung auf eine Benutzerabfrage bereitzustellen.
[0008]
Die Erfindung wird durch die Merkmale der unabhängigen Ansprüche beschrieben. Ausführungsformen sind in den abhängigen Ansprüchen angegeben.
[0009]
Beispielhafte Ausführungsformen der Offenbarung betreffen Anwendungen zur Selbstbedienungs-Benutzerunterstützung, die auf der Analyse von Ontologien über bereichsbezogene Informationen beruhen. Ein Aspekt der Offenbarung betrifft ein System zum Bereitstellen von Informationen im Zusammenhang mit einer Benutzerabfrage. Die Benutzerabfrage kann ein Problem, auf das der Benutzer bei einem Produkt oder einer Dienstleistung gestoßen ist, eine Frage zu einem Produkt oder zu einer Dienstleistung oder andere Bedürfnisse von Kunden/Benutzern betreffen. Das System kann einen Prozessor für natürliche Sprache aufweisen, um relevante Begriffe in der Benutzerabfrage zu ermitteln, und einen Ontologieanalysator, um die relevanten Begriffe mit Konzepten in einer Ontologie abzugleichen, die einen Zusammenhang mit der Benutzerabfrage aufweisen. Das System kann ferner einen Abfrageprozessor aufweisen, um die Benutzerabfrage unter Verwendung des Abgleichs zwischen relevanten Begriffen und Ontologiekonzepten zu verfeinern, und eine Suchmaschine, um in einer Datenbank Informationen zu ermitteln, die für die verfeinerte Benutzerabfrage relevant sind.
[0010]
Ein weiterer Aspekt der Offenbarung betrifft ein mittels Computer realisiertes Verfahren zum Bereitstellen von Informationen im Zusammenhang mit einer Benutzerabfrage. Das Verfahren kann das Aufgliedern der Benutzerabfrage aufweisen, um relevante Begriffe in der Benutzerabfrage zu ermitteln, das Abgleichen relevanter Begriffe mit Konzepten in einer Ontologie, die einen Zusammenhang mit der Benutzerabfrage aufweisen, das Verfeinern der Abfrage auf der Grundlage des Abgleichs zwischen relevanten Begriffen und Ontologiekonzepten und das Durchsuchen einer Datenbank nach Informationen, die für die verfeinerte Benutzerabfrage relevant sind.
[0011]
Ein noch weiterer Aspekt der Offenbarung betrifft ein Computerprogrammprodukt zum Bereitstellen von Informationen im Zusammenhang mit einer Benutzerabfrage. Das Computerprogrammprodukt weist ein computerlesbares Speichermedium mit darauf verkörpertem computerlesbarem Programmcode auf und ist so gestaltet, dass die Benutzerabfrage aufgegliedert wird, um relevante Begriffe in der Benutzerabfrage zu ermitteln, und die relevanten Begriffe mit Konzepten in einer Ontologie abgeglichen werden, die einen Zusammenhang mit der Benutzerabfrage aufweisen. Der Programmcode kann ferner so gestaltet sein, dass die Benutzerabfrage auf der Grundlage des Abgleichs zwischen relevanten Begriffen und Ontologiekonzepten verfeinert wird, und eine Datenbank nach Informationen durchsucht wird, die für die verfeinerte Benutzerabfrage relevant sind.
[0012]
Die Einzelheiten der beispielhaften Ausführungsformen der Erfindung sowohl hinsichtlich ihrer Struktur als auch ihrer Funktionsweise sind nachfolgend im Abschnitt „Ausführliche Beschreibung“ unter Bezugnahme auf die beigefügten Zeichnungen beschrieben, in denen gleiche Bezugsnummern gleiche Teile bezeichnen. Der Abschnitt „Kurzdarstellung“ dient dazu, die Hauptmerkmale des beanspruchten Gegenstands zu kennzeichnen, soll jedoch den Schutzbereich des beanspruchten Gegenstands nicht einschränken.
KURZBESCHREIBUNG DER ZEICHNUNGEN
1 veranschaulicht ein Blockschaltbild einer beispielhaften Konfiguration für die Benutzerunterstützung, bei der Aspekte der Offenbarung bereitgestellt sein können.
2 veranschaulicht ein Blockschaltbild eines charakteristischen Computersystems, das in einem computergestützten Benutzerunterstützungssystem verwendet werden kann, zum Beispiel in der Unterstützungskonfiguration in 1, um Aspekte der Offenbarung bereitzustellen.
3 veranschaulicht ein Blockschaltbild eines Selbstbedienungs-Unterstützungssystems gemäß einer Ausführungsform der Offenbarung, um eine Benutzerabfrage auf der Grundlage einer Ontologie bereichsspezifischer Informationen zu empfangen und zu analysieren und Informationen zurückzugeben, die für die Benutzerabfrage relevant sind.
4 veranschaulicht ausführlicher ein weiteres Selbstbedienungs-Unterstützungssystem gemäß einer Ausführungsform der Offenbarung, um eine Benutzerabfrage auf der Grundlage einer Ontologie bereichsspezifischer Informationen zu empfangen und zu analysieren und Informationen zurückzugeben, die für die Benutzerabfrage relevant sind.
5 veranschaulicht ein Menü einer beispielhaften Benutzeroberfläche zum Eingeben einer Benutzerabfrage, die durch eine Ausführungsform eines Selbstbedienungs-Unterstützungssystems der Offenbarung verarbeitet werden kann.
Die 6 bis 8 veranschaulichen weitere beispielhafte Menüs von Benutzeroberflächen, die ein Selbstbedienungs-Unterstützungssystem einem Benutzer anzeigen kann, um weitere Einzelheiten über eine Benutzerabfrage zu erhalten, um die Abfrage dadurch effektiv zu verarbeiten und relevante Ergebnisse zu ermitteln.
9 ist ein Ablaufplan eines Prozesses gemäß einer Ausführungsform der Offenbarung, um eine Benutzerabfrage zu empfangen und auf der Grundlage einer Ontologie bereichsspezifischer Informationen zu analysieren und Informationen zurückzugeben, die für die Benutzerabfrage relevant sind.
10 ist ein Ablaufplan eines Prozesses gemäß einer Ausführungsform der Offenbarung, dem ein Prozessor für natürliche Sprache folgen kann, um eine Benutzerabfrage zu analysieren und relevante Begriffe und Parameter zu extrahieren und diese einem Ontologieanalysator bereitzustellen.
11 ist ein Ablaufplan eines Prozesses gemäß einer Ausführungsform der Offenbarung, dem ein Ontologieanalysator folgen kann, um relevante Begriffe aus einer Benutzerabfrage mit einer Ontologie bereichsspezifischer Informationen abzugleichen und eine Suchabfrage für eine Suchmaschine zu erzeugen.
12 ist ein Ablaufplan eines Abfrageverfeinerungsprozesses gemäß einer Ausführungsform der Offenbarung, um die Vollständigkeit und Detailgenauigkeit einer Benutzerabfrage zu ermitteln, die Benutzerabfrage mit Benutzerfragen und -antworten weiter zu verfeinern und Folgeaktionen festzulegen.
AUSFÜHRLICHE BESCHREIBUNG DER OFFENBARUNG
[0013]
Beispielhafte Ausführungsformen der Offenbarung betreffen Anwendungen zur Selbstbedienungs-Benutzerunterstützung, die auf bereichsbezogenen Informationen beruhen. Beispielsweise können die Ausführungsformen der Offenbarung unter anderem auf Kunden-Unterstützungssysteme in der Informationstechnologie (IT), bei Finanzdienstleistungen, im Gesundheitswesen, zu Informationszwecken bei staatlichen Stellen, bei juristischen Dienstleistungen, im Bildungswesen und im Produktmarketing angewendet werden. Die Ausführungsformen können als eigenständige Produktinformationen oder als Dienstleistungs-Unterstützungssysteme bereitgestellt oder in Unterstützungsanwendungen von Callcentern integriert werden. Die Ausführungsformen ermöglichen es einem Kunden oder Benutzer, ein Problem oder einen Bedarf in Freitextform einzugeben. Zum Beispiel kann ein Kunde in einer Finanzdienstleistungsumgebung eine Anfrage in der Form „Wie richtet man Überweisungen von einem Bankkonto auf ein Maklerkonto ein?“ eingeben.
[0014]
Die Ausführungsformen können eine Benutzerabfrage empfangen, relevante Begriffe und Einzelheiten in der Benutzerabfrage ermitteln und bei Notwendigkeit auf der Grundlage eines aus der Ontologie abgeleiteten wissensbasierten Verständnisses und Erkenntnisvermögens kontextspezifische Benutzerfragen erzeugen. Die Abfrage kann mit Antworten auf zusätzliche Fragen verfeinert werden, die dem Benutzer gestellt wurden. Dies ist ein iterativer Prozess, bei dem die Abfrage auf der Grundlage der Fragen und Antworten erneut verarbeitet werden kann. Die Ausführungsformen können relevante Begriffe und Einzelheiten verwenden, die aus der Benutzerabfrage extrahiert wurden, um eine Ontologie bereichsspezifischer Informationen zu analysieren und eine Suchabfrage zu erzeugen. Die Ausführungsformen können die Suchabfrage verwenden, um in verfügbaren Informationsspeichern Informationen im Zusammenhang mit der Benutzerabfrage zu ermitteln oder relevante Folgeaktionen wie zum Beispiel anwendbare Tools oder Hilfsprozesse vorzuschlagen. Zu den durch die Ausführungsformen der Erfindung ermittelten Informationen können Dokumententitel, Teile von Dokumenten, Benutzerhandbücher, Webseiten, Tools, Prozesse und Links zu Dokumenten gehören, die für die Benutzerabfrage relevant sind.
[0015]
Unter Bezugnahme auf 1 ist dort ein Blockschaltbild einer beispielhaften Computerkonfiguration veranschaulicht, bei der Aspekte der Offenbarung bereitgestellt sein können. Die Computerkonfiguration 10 kann mehrere Client-Computer 11 bis 12 zum Zugreifen auf einen Server 13 aufweisen, um über das Netzwerk 14 eine Benutzerunterstützung zu erhalten. Auf dem Server 13 kann eine Anwendung zur Selbstbedienungs-Benutzerunterstützung gehostet sein, die Kunden bei Produktinformationen oder bei der Lösung von Problemen mit Dienstleistungen hilft und Antworten auf Kundenanfragen bereitstellt.
[0016]
2 veranschaulicht ein Blockschaltbild eines charakteristischen Computersystems, das bei einer Benutzerunterstützungskonfiguration verwendet werden kann, zum Beispiel bei der Konfiguration 10 in 1, um Aspekte der Erfindung bereitzustellen. Das Datenverarbeitungssystem 200 kann eine Prozessoreinheit 211, eine Arbeitsspeichereinheit 212, einen Permanentspeicher 213, eine Datenaustauscheinheit 214, eine Eingabe-/Ausgabeeinheit 215, eine Anzeigeeinheit 216 und einen Systembus 217 aufweisen. Computerprogramme sind normalerweise im Permanentspeicher 213 gespeichert, bis sie zur Ausführung benötigt werden, wobei die Programme zu diesem Zeitpunkt in die Arbeitsspeichereinheit 212 gebracht werden, so dass die Prozessoreinheit 211 direkt auf sie zugreifen kann. Der Prozessor 211 wählt einen Teil des Arbeitsspeichers 212 zum Lesen und/oder Schreiben aus, indem er zusammen mit einer Anforderung zum Lesen und/oder Schreiben eine Adresse verwendet, die der Prozessor 211 für den Arbeitsspeicher 212 vorgibt. Üblicherweise bewirken das Lesen und die Interpretation einer codierten Anweisung, dass der Prozessor 211 eine nachfolgende Anweisung abruft, entweder an einer nachfolgenden Adresse oder an einer anderen Adresse.
[0017]
3 veranschaulicht ein Blockschaltbild eines Selbstbedienungs-Unterstützungssystems 300 gemäß einer beispielhaften Ausführungsform der Offenbarung, um die Benutzerabfrage auf der Grundlage einer Ontologie bereichsspezifischer Informationen zu empfangen und zu analysieren und Informationen zurückzugeben, die für die Benutzerabfrage relevant sind. Beispielsweise kann es sich bei dem Bereich um Finanzdienstleistungen oder um die Kundenunterstützung für IT-Produkte handeln. Das System 300 kann eine Softwareanwendung sein, die auf einem Server 13 betrieben wird, und es kann ein Benutzeroberflächensystem 302 und ein Abfragelogiksystem 303 aufweisen. Das Benutzeroberflächensystem 302 ermöglicht einem Benutzer 301 zum Beispiel ein Problem, einen Benutzerbedarf oder eine Anfrage über ein unterstütztes Produkt oder eine unterstützte Dienstleistung einzugeben. Das Problem, der Bedarf oder die Anfrage des Benutzers können die Form einer Benutzerabfrageanweisung 304 aufweisen.
[0018]
Sobald die Benutzerabfrageanweisung 304 durch das Abfragelogiksystem 303 analysiert und verarbeitet wurde, kann das Abfragelogiksystem 303 Dokumente oder andere Informationen 311 an den Benutzer 301 zurückgeben, bei denen das Abfragelogiksystem 303 ermittelt, dass sie für die Benutzerabfrage relevant sind. Die ermittelten Informationen 311 können über das Benutzeroberflächensystem 302 zurückgegeben werden. Beispielhafte Benutzeroberflächenmenüs, die das Benutzeroberflächensystem 302 dem Benutzer 301 anzeigen kann, werden nachfolgend unter Bezugnahme auf die 5 bis 8 beschrieben.
[0019]
Das Benutzeroberflächensystem 302 kann dem Benutzer ergänzende Fragen über die Benutzerabfrage 304 anzeigen, die durch das Abfragelogiksystem 303 erzeugt wurden. Während der Verarbeitung der Benutzerabfrage kann das Benutzeroberflächensystem 302 außerdem Benutzerantworten an das Abfragelogiksystem 303 weiterleiten. Eine Funktion des Abfragelogiksystems 303 kann darin bestehen, eine Brücke zwischen der Benutzer-Freiformbeschreibung der Benutzerabfrage 304 und den auf der Verwendung von Ontologien beruhenden feststehenden Back-End-Kategorien zu schlagen, die analysiert werden, um die Benutzerabfrageanweisung abzuklären. Zum Überbrückungsprozess können unter Verwendung einer bereichsspezifischen Ontologie die Begriffsklärung, Ergänzung und Erweiterung der Benutzerabfrage 304 gehören, um die Detailgenauigkeit und Vollständigkeit der Benutzerabfrage zu verbessern. Das Abfragelogiksystem 303 kann die resultierende Benutzerabfrage durch einen Vergleich mit Wissensdatenbanken, Tools, Prozessen oder Ressourcen bewerten, die möglicherweise die Selbstbedienungsanforderung des Benutzers unterstützen. Die resultierende Abfrage kann auf der Grundlage von Fragen an den Benutzer und Benutzerantworten durch einen Abfrageprozessor weiter verfeinert werden.
[0020]
Eine Ontologie ist eine Datenstruktur zur formalen Darstellung von Konzepten und zugehörigen Beziehungen in einem Bereich der technischen Unterstützung, z.B. im Bankenwesen, in der Gesundheitsfürsorge, bei Computerprodukten usw. Sie kann nicht nur zur Definition des Fachgebietes und zur Bereitstellung eines gemeinsam genutzten Vokabulars verwendet werden, sondern auch zur Bereitstellung von Eigenschaften von Daten in dem Fachgebiet. Bei den Ausführungsformen der Erfindung kann die Ontologie zu Beginn durch Bereichs- und Ontologiespezialisten erarbeitet werden. Das Abfragelogiksystem 303 kann die Ontologie im Laufe der Zeit mithilfe von Text-Mining und Ontologieanpassung durch zusätzliche Benutzereingaben verfeinern, wie nachfolgend unter Bezugnahme auf den Ontologieeditor 409 und das Ontologie-Erstellungsprogramm 410 in 4 und den Ontologie-Analyseprozess in 11 beschrieben.
[0021]
Eine Ontologie kann ein Ontologiemodell und einen Wissensspeicher aufweisen. Das Ontologiemodell kann in Form einer OWL-Datei (OWL = Web Ontology Language) vorliegen, die die Hauptkonzepte des Fachgebietes enthält, die relativ statisch sind. Der Wissensspeicher kann als RDF (Resource Description Format) vorliegen und mit der OWL-Datei übereinstimmen. Als Beispiel einer Bereichsverwendung kann das Ontologiemodell vier Hauptelemente einer „perfekten“ oder „vollständigen“ Abfrage erfassen, zu denen Informationen darüber gehören können: (1) worin der Bedarf oder das Problem des Benutzers besteht (z.B. Situation, Symptome); (2) wo der Bedarf oder das Problem des Benutzers auftritt (z.B. betroffene Komponenten); (3) in welcher Umgebung sie auftreten (z.B. betroffenes Produkt); und (4) was geändert wurde (z.B. Benutzeraktivität, die zu dem Problem geführt hat).
[0022]
Das Abfragelogiksystem 303 kann die semantische Bedeutung in der Benutzerabfrage durch Rückschluss herleiten und sie durch Vergleich mit einer Bereichsdarstellung analysieren. Das Abfragelogiksystem 303 kann dem Benutzer eine Reihe von Fragen stellen, bis eine Suchabfrage erzeugt werden kann, die eine angemessene Anzahl von Ergebnissen zurückgeben würde. Das Abfragelogiksystem 303 kann ferner durch seine Fragen dem Benutzer die Struktur der Ontologie darlegen und die Benutzerabfrage auf der Grundlage von Benutzerantworten auf die Fragen verfeinern. Die Verfeinerung ist nicht automatisiert, sondern bezieht vielmehr den Benutzer ein. Sie ermöglicht das Zusammenspiel auf der Grundlage einer gemischten Initiative, bei dem der Benutzer zur Formulierung der verfeinerten Abfrage beiträgt, indem er Fragen beantwortet und zusätzliche Informationen bereitstellt. Die Suchabfrage kann zur Durchführung einer Metasuche verwendet werden, bei der sie über mehrere Suchmaschinen an eine oder mehrere heterogene Back-End-Datenbanken, Wissensspeicher und verfügbare Tools gesendet wird. Das Abfragelogiksystem 303 kann relevante Ergebnisse in einer vereinheitlichten, aber durch die Eingabe der Abfrage kategorisierten und gefilterten Liste von Informationen zurückgeben.
[0023]
Bei einer beispielhaften Ausführungsform der Erfindung kann das Abfragelogiksystem 303 einen Prozessor 305 für natürliche Sprache, einen Ontologieanalysator 306, einen Abfrageprozessor 307 und eine Suchmaschine 308 aufweisen. Der Prozessor 305 für natürliche Sprache kann eine durch den Benutzer eingegebene Abfrage analysieren, um wichtige Einzelheiten aus der Benutzerabfrage zu extrahieren. Zu Abfrageeinzelheiten können zum Beispiel die Art des Benutzerproblems, was der Benutzer gerade getan hat, als das Problem auftrat, die Umgebung, in der das Problem auftrat, betroffene Produktkomponenten und Bedingungen gehören, die sich im Ergebnis des Problems geändert haben. Die Ausgabe des Prozessors 305 für natürliche Sprache kann in Form relevanter Teilzeichenfolgen (z.B. Schlüsselbegriffe) und Anmerkungen zu den relevanten Teilzeichenfolgen vorgenommen werden. Der Prozessor 305 für natürliche Sprache wird nachfolgend unter Bezugnahme auf die 4 und 10 beschrieben.
[0024]
Ein Ontologieanalysator 306 kann vom Prozessor 305 für natürliche Sprache relevante Teilzeichenfolgen und Anmerkungen empfangen, um eine Ontologie bereichsspezifischer Informationen im Zusammenhang mit der Benutzerabfrage zu analysieren und Konzepte und Beziehungen in der Ontologie zu ermitteln, die mit dem Problem oder dem Bedarf des Benutzers übereinstimmen. Der Ontologieanalysator 306 wird nachfolgend unter Bezugnahme auf die 3 bis 4 und 11 beschrieben. Das Abfragelogiksystem 303 kann ferner einen Abfrageprozessor 307 zum Verfeinern der Benutzerabfrage hinsichtlich Vollständigkeit und Detailgenauigkeit aufweisen. Als Teil des Verfeinerungsprozesses der Benutzerabfrage kann der Abfrageprozessor 307 zusätzliche Fragen über das Problem oder den Bedarf des Benutzers erzeugen, die das Benutzeroberflächensystem 302 dem Benutzer stellen und die Benutzerantworten auf diese Fragen verarbeiten kann. Einzelheiten der Erzeugung von Benutzerfragen und der Verarbeitung von Benutzerantworten werden nachfolgend unter Bezugnahme auf die 4 und 12 beschrieben.
[0025]
Der Abfrageprozessor 307 kann ferner Folgeaktionen der Dienstleistungen für den Benutzer festlegen wie zum Beispiel dem Benutzer vorzuschlagen, einen Problemdatensatz oder eine Informationsanforderung zu eröffnen, und dem Benutzer diese Dienstleistungsaktionen anzeigen. Als Ausgabe des Abfrageverfeinerungsprozesses kann der Abfrageprozessor 307 speziellere Begriffe, Wortgruppen und weitere Informationen (sofern diese fehlen) erzeugen, die das Problem bzw. den Bedarf des Benutzers exakter beschreiben. Der Abfrageprozessor 307 kann diese Begriffe, Wortgruppen und weiteren Informationen anschließend der Suchmaschine 308 bereitstellen. Der Abfrageprozessor 307 wird nachfolgend unter Bezugnahme auf die 4 und 12 weiter beschrieben.
[0026]
Die Suchmaschine 308 kann Informationen, die für die Benutzerabfrage 304 relevant sind, aus Datenbanken 309 von Produkt- und Dienstleistungsdaten, aus dem Internet und Intranet 310 und aus anderen verfügbaren Speichern von Informationen ermitteln. Das Abfragelogiksystem 303 kann die ermittelten Informationen über das Benutzeroberflächensystem 302 an den Benutzer zurückgeben. Die Suchmaschine 308 kann ein Datensuch- oder Datenanalytikprogramm wie zum Beispiel die Suchmaschine Google™ oder den IBM DB2 Intelligent Miner™ aufweisen.
[0027]
4 veranschaulicht ausführlicher eine beispielhafte Ausführungsform eines Abfragelogiksystems 400 zum Empfangen und Analysieren einer Abfrage auf der Grundlage einer Ontologie bereichsspezifischer Informationen und zum Zurückgeben von relevanten Informationen an den Benutzer. Das Abfragelogiksystem 400 kann in Form von Schichten realisiert sein, bei denen jede Schicht für eine Gruppe zugehöriger Verarbeitungsaufgaben zuständig ist. Zum Beispiel kann eine Verarbeitungsschicht 402 für natürliche Sprache für das Aufgliedern einer Benutzerabfrage in natürlicher Sprache, z.B. in Englisch, zuständig sein. Zur Sprachverarbeitungsschicht 402 kann ein Prozessor 403 für natürliche Sprache gehören, um die Benutzerabfrage in Token oder Schlüsselwörter wie zum Beispiel „fehlgeschlagen“, „Programm“, „Start“, „Blockierung“ usw. aufzubrechen. Ein Beispiel für den Prozessor 403 für natürliche Sprache kann der Prozessor für natürliche Sprache IBM LanguageWare™ sein. Der Prozessor 403 für natürliche Sprache kann ferner die Schlüsselwörter in eine formale Darstellung aufgliedern, die leichter von einer Computeranwendung genutzt werden kann.
[0028]
Bei einer Ausführungsform der Erfindung kann der Prozessor 403 für natürliche Sprache eine lexikalische Analyse der Beschreibung eines Problems oder Bedarfs durch den Benutzer durchführen. Zu Beginn kann er unter Verwendung eines Wörterbuchs mit Regeln zum Aufbrechen die Beschreibung in Absätze, Sätze und Token aufgliedern. Er kann in einem oder mehreren Wörterbüchern nach einem Token suchen, um mehr Informationen über ein Wort zu finden, zum Beispiel über seine Wortart (Part of Speech, POS). Zu den Wörterbüchern können sowohl linguistische Standardwörterbücher gehören, die alle Wörter in der gewählten Sprache enthalten, als auch benutzerdefinierte Wörterbücher, die Wörter aus einem bestimmten Wissensgebiet enthalten.
[0029]
Außerdem kann der Prozessor 403 für natürliche Sprache andere Analysearten durchführen, um die Art, das Format und die Bedeutung des gerade verarbeiteten Textes zu ermitteln. Beispielsweise kann der Prozessor 403 für natürliche Sprache eine Spracherkennung auf einen Text-Hauptteil anwenden, um die Sprache zu ermitteln, in der er geschrieben wurde. Die lexikalische Analyse kann zur Erkennung von Wörtern und ihren Attributen sowie zur Ermittlung der Wortart jedes Wortes verwendet werden. Die semantische Analyse kann eingesetzt werden, um unter Verwendung eines Prozesses, bei dem syntaktische Strukturen zueinander in Beziehung gesetzt werden, über das Verständnis der grammatischen Strukturmuster einer Sprache die Kontextbedeutung von Wörtern und Wortgruppen zu ermitteln. Die semantische Analyse ist nach dem Aufgliedern eine Phase der Verarbeitung von natürlicher Sprache, zu der die Extraktion kontextunabhängiger Aspekte der Bedeutung eines Satzes einschließlich der semantischen Rollen von in dem Satz aufgeführten Einheiten sowie Quantifizierungsinformationen wie zum Beispiel Kardinalität, Iteration und Abhängigkeit gehören.
[0030]
Als Teil der Verarbeitung natürlicher Sprache kann der Prozessor 403 für natürliche Sprache ferner Funktionen zur Rechtschreibprüfung, Klärung der Wortart, Normalisierung (d.h. der Ermittlung des Lemmas oder der kanonischen Form eines Wortes, die auch als „morphologische Analyse“ bezeichnet werden) und zur Auflösung von Anaphern aufweisen. Normalisierung ist der Prozess, bei dem eine einzelne Zeichenfolgedarstellung für ein Wort oder einen Begriff ermittelt wird, das bzw. der im Text gefunden wurde. Bei der Normalisierung flektierter Formen (Lauf, laufend, Läufe usw.) wird dies üblicherweise als Lemma, Zitatform oder kanonische Form bezeichnet. Die Wortart ist die linguistische Kategorie eines Wortes, zum Beispiel Substantiv (der Lauf), Verb (laufen), Adjektiv (laufender Honig) usw. Die Klärung der Wortart ist der Prozess, bei dem einem Wort die korrekte Wortart zugewiesen wird, und die Klärung des Wortsinns (semantische Klärung) ist der Prozess, bei dem ermittelt wird, welcher Sinn eines Wortes in einem beliebigen bestimmten Satz verwendet wird, wenn das Wort eine Anzahl unterschiedlicher Bedeutungen hat.
[0031]
Der Prozessor 403 für natürliche Sprache kann auf ein Wörterbuch 404 zurückgreifen, um die Bedeutung ungewohnter Begriffe zu erhalten, die der Benutzer eingibt. Er kann in einem Thesaurus 405 Synonyme, Antonyme usw. und in einem Lexikon 406 Ausdrücke nachschlagen. Ein Lexikon ist das Vokabelverzeichnis einer Sprache, das Wörter sowie übliche Ausdrücke enthält. Es handelt sich hierbei um den Bestand einer Sprache an Lexemen. Das Lexikon enthält nicht nur Einträge für Wörter und Wortgruppen, sondern auch lexikalische Beziehungen, syntaktische Argumentstrukturen und grammatische Beziehungen. Während der Verarbeitung der Benutzerabfrage durch den Prozessor 403 für natürliche Sprache kann die Verarbeitungsschicht 402 für natürliche Sprache wichtige Teilzeichenfolgen aus der Benutzerabfrage extrahieren und sie der Ontologieschicht 407 bereitstellen. Die Ontologieschicht 407 kann diese Teilzeichenfolgen mit einer Ontologie bereichsspezifischer Informationen abgleichen, die mit dem Bedarf oder Problem des Benutzers im Zusammenhang stehen.
[0032]
Beispielsweise kann der Benutzer eine Abfrage als „Instollationsproblem bei UNIX“ eingeben. Die Verarbeitungsschicht 402 für natürliche Sprache kann die folgenden Aufgaben durchführen:
- Ermitteln der Sprache des Textes als Englisch
- Erkennen der falsche Schreibweise von „Installation“ (Instollation)
- Ermitteln der kanonischen Form von „Installation“ (installieren)
- Erkennen eines bereichsspezifischen Begriffes für die technische Unterstützung (UNIX)
- semantische Erkennung einer Störung (Installationsproblem)
[0033]
Sobald der Prozess bezüglich der natürlichen Sprache beendet ist, kann die Ontologieschicht 407 des Abfragelogiksystems 400 mit dem Analysieren der Benutzerabfrage gegen eine zugehörige bereichsspezifische Ontologie beginnen. Das Abfragelogiksystem 400 kann auf der Grundlage von Konzepten und Beziehungen, die die Ontologieschicht 407 aus der Ontologie ermittelt, die Benutzerabfrage mit dem Ziel verfeinern, die Relevanz von Suchergebnissen zu erhöhen.
[0034]
Die Ontologieschicht 407 kann eine Ontologiekonzept-Abgleicheinheit 408 aufweisen, um Begriffe und Beziehungen in der Ontologie zu untersuchen und sie mit den Teilzeichenfolgen abzugleichen, die aus der Benutzerabfrage extrahiert wurden. Die Ontologie kann als Baumstruktur bildlich dargestellt werden, wobei jeder Knoten in dem Baum zu einem Begriff gehört und eine Verbindung zwischen zwei Knoten eine Beziehung zwischen den Begriffen darstellt, die zu den verbundenen Knoten gehören. Auf der Grundlage der Analyse der Ontologie kann die Ontologiekonzept-Abgleicheinheit 408 eine Menge von Begriffen aus der Ontologie und deren Beziehungen bereitstellen, die mit den aus der Benutzerabfrage extrahierten relevanten Teilzeichenfolgen übereinstimmen. Die abgeglichenen Begriffe und Beziehungen können an die Abfrageverarbeitungsschicht 416 zur weiteren Verarbeitung durch das Abfragelogiksystem 400 weitergeleitet werden.
[0035]
Die Ontologiekonzept-Abgleicheinheit 408 kann ein aus der Benutzerabfrage extrahiertes Token mit jedem Konzept in einer Ontologie (z.B. mit einem Knoten in einer Ontologiestruktur) und mit Attributen und Beziehungen abgleichen, die zu dem Konzept gehören. Zu Attributen können Teilkomponenten, Akronyme und Synonyme des Konzepts gehören. Bei einer Übereinstimmung zwischen dem Token und einem Konzept in der Ontologie kann die Verarbeitungsschicht 402 für natürliche Sprache das Token in einer Anmerkung mit dem übereinstimmenden Konzept und dessen zugehörigen Säulen versehen. Zu den zugehörigen Säulen können Situationen, Aktivitäten, Produkte, IT-Komponenten usw. gehören, die Anforderungen an eine „perfekte“ Abfrage widerspiegeln.
[0036]
Wenn die Ontologiekonzept-Abgleicheinheit 408 eine Teilübereinstimmung zwischen einem Token und einem Ontologiekonzept ermittelt, kann die Verarbeitungsschicht 402 für natürliche Sprache das übereinstimmende Token mit einer Anmerkung versehen, und bei Notwendigkeit kann das Abfragelogiksystem 400 die Teilübereinstimmung mit der Ontologie durch den Benutzer bestätigen lassen. Falls die Ontologiekonzept-Abgleicheinheit 408 mehrere Ontologiekonzepte ermittelt, die mit einem Token übereinstimmen, kann das Abfragelogiksystem 400 mithilfe von Fragen an den Benutzer den Benutzer um Klärung und Auswahl der besten Ontologieübereinstimmung bitten. Der Benutzer kann auf der Grundlage des Konzepts, der Säule und der Beschreibung des Tokens und der übereinstimmenden Ontologiekonzepte die korrekten Wörter auswählen.
[0037]
Die Ontologieschicht 407 kann ferner einen Ontologieeditor 409 und ein Ontologie-Erstellungsprogramm 410 aufweisen. Der Ontologieeditor 409 ermöglicht einem Ontologiespezialisten, eine Ontologie für einen bestimmten Bereich zu erzeugen und zu bearbeiten. Ein beispielhafter Ontologieeditor ist der Open-Source-Editor Protege. Ein Ontologiespezialist kann mit dem Editor Protege eine Ontologie in den Skriptsprachen RDF und OWL erzeugen und bearbeiten. Das Ontologie-Erstellungsprogramm 410 ermöglicht die Aktualisierung einer Ontologie mit zusätzlichen Begriffen und Beziehungen, die das Abfragelogiksystem 400 unter Umständen während der Verarbeitung von Benutzerabfragen ermittelt. Auf der Grundlage des tatsächlichen Bedarfs und der tatsächlichen Probleme und Informationen, die als Reaktion auf Benutzerabfragen ermittelt werden, erweitert das Ontologie-Erstellungsprogramm 410 somit die Ontologie und verfeinert im Laufe der Zeit ihren Inhalt hinsichtlich Vollständigkeit und Genauigkeit.
[0038]
Sobald der Prozess des Ontologieabgleichs abgeschlossen ist, kann das Abfragelogiksystem 400 abgeglichene Ontologiekonzepte an die Abfrageverarbeitungsschicht 416 weiterleiten, um zu bewerten, ob die Benutzerabfrage vollständig und ausreichend detailgenau für die Verarbeitung ist oder eine Verfeinerung mithilfe zusätzlicher Benutzereingaben benötigt. Die Abfrageverarbeitungsschicht 416 kann eine Begriffsprüfeinheit 411 aufweisen, um die Detailgenauigkeit der aus der Benutzerabfrage extrahierten Schlüsselbegriffe zu ermitteln. Bei jedem Teil der Benutzerabfrage kann die Begriffsprüfeinheit 411 ermitteln, ob die zurückgegebene Ontologieübereinstimmung für eine Suche ausreichend detailgenau ist. Wenn die Ontologieübereinstimmung nicht ausreichend detailgenau ist, kann die Abfrageverarbeitungsschicht 416 dem Benutzer zusätzliche Fragen stellen, um die Detailgenauigkeit der Ontologieübereinstimmung zu verbessern.
[0039]
Die Abfrageverarbeitungsschicht 416 kann eine Vollständigkeitsprüfeinheit 412 aufweisen, um zu bewerten, ob die Benutzerabfrage zur Verarbeitung ausreichend vollständig ist. Die Vollständigkeitsprüfeinheit 412 kann ermitteln, ob jeder Teil einer „perfekten“ Abfrage erfüllt ist. Bei einer beispielhaften Ausführungsform kann „Vollständigkeit“ bedeuten, dass dem Abfragelogiksystem 400 ausreichende Informationen vorliegen, sodass es einem Experten in dem Bereich möglich ist, dem Benutzer zu antworten. Beispielsweise benötigt das Abfragelogiksystem 400 unter Umständen Informationen darüber: a) was der Benutzer tun wollte, b) welches Problem bei dem Nutzer auftrat und c) welches Produkt oder welche Dienstleistung der Benutzer verwendet hat. Alle drei Aspekte der Problembeschreibung wären zur Erfüllung der Vollständigkeit notwendig. Bei beliebigen fehlenden Elementen kann die Abfrageverarbeitungsschicht 416 dem Benutzer zusätzliche Fragen mit dem Ziel stellen, jeden Teil einer perfekten Abfrage zu erfüllen.
[0040]
Die Abfrageverarbeitungsschicht 416 kann einen Prozessor 413 für Benutzerfragen und -antworten aufweisen, um Benutzerfragen zu erzeugen und zusätzliche Einzelheiten über das Problem oder den Bedarf des Benutzers zu erhalten. Die aus den Benutzerfragen und -antworten erhaltenen Informationen werden wie oben beschrieben zur Verfeinerung der Benutzerabfrage verwendet. Bei einer beispielhaften Ausführungsform können die Fragen Bereiche betreffen, die dem System ein besseres „Verständnis“ des Problems ermöglichen, zum Beispiel „Worin besteht das Problem?“, „Wo trat das Problem auf?“, „In welcher Umgebung?“ und „Was hat sich geändert?“. Der Prozessor 413 für Fragen und Antworten stellt unter Umständen nicht immer alle Fragen. Er kann je nach dem Ausmaß der Detailgenauigkeit und Ausführlichkeit der Benutzerabfrage ermitteln, welche Fragen zu stellen sind, um dem Abfragelogiksystem 400 in praktisch durchführbarer Weise die Rückgabe relevanter Ergebnisse zu ermöglichen. Zu den Ergebnissen können geeignete Dokumente aus einer Suche im Zusammenhang mit dem Bedarf oder Problem des Benutzers in verschiedenen Fachgebieten oder relevante Folgeaktionen wie zum Beispiel anwendbare Tools und Dienstleistungen gehören.
[0041]
Bei einer beispielhaften Ausführungsform kann der Prozessor 413 für Benutzerfragen und -antworten Informationen in der bereichsspezifischen Ontologie mit dem speziellen Problem oder Bedarf des Benutzers kombinieren, um eine Bedingung zu erläutern, die das Problem des Benutzers verursacht haben könnte, und das Benutzervertrauen und die Benutzerbeziehung zu verbessern. Zum Beispiel könnte der Prozessor 413 für Fragen und Antworten als Reaktion darauf, dass ein Problem eines Kunden eine Finanztransaktion betrifft, den Kunden über eine kürzliche Systemaktualisierung informieren, anbieten, dem Kunden per Telefon zu helfen, und dem Kunden einen Anreiz bieten, der für ihn wertvoll sein kann.
[0042]
Der Prozessor 413 für Fragen und Antworten kann ferner die Fragen so zuschneiden, dass bestimmte Wörter angezeigt werden, die der Situation des Benutzers entsprechen. Die Fragen können durch andere Wörter ersetzte Wörter aufweisen, sodass das System in dem für den Benutzer relevanten Kontext interagieren kann. Zum Beispiel kann der Benutzer in der Benutzerabfrage angeben, dass „der Notebook-Computer nicht gebootet hat“. Beim Erzeugen von Fragen an den Benutzer kann der Prozessor 413 für Fragen und Antworten das Wort „Laptop“ in seinem Speicher mit Fragen durch das Wort „Notebook“ ersetzen. Über Verfeinerungsfragen für den Benutzer kann der Prozessor 413 für Fragen und Antworten dem Benutzer die Ontologiestruktur darlegen, wodurch dem Benutzer ermöglicht wird, mehr über den betreffenden Bereich zu lernen, das das Abfragelogiksystem 400 verwendet. Auf der Grundlage der Antworten des Benutzers kann der Prozessor 413 für Fragen und Antworten zusätzliche Benutzerfragen erzeugen, um die Benutzerabfrage weiter zu verfeinern.
[0043]
Die Interaktion zwischen Benutzerfragen und -antworten ist daher ein iterativer Prozess zum Verfeinern der Benutzerabfrage mit Benutzereingaben. Der Prozessor 413 für Fragen und Antworten kann wesentliche Elemente der Benutzerabfrage erfassen, aber auf der Grundlage der bereichsspezifischen Ontologie weitere Fragen stellen und Antwortvorschläge unterbreiten, bis die Benutzerabfrage nahezu eine „perfekte“ Abfrage ist. Das Abfragelogiksystem 400 bietet dem Benutzer eine Lernerfahrung, um bessere Fragen zu formulieren, während der Benutzer potenziell zusätzliches, noch nicht erfasstes, im Laufe der Zeit zur formalen Darstellung des Fachgebietes (Ontologie) hinzuzufügendes bereichsspezifisches Wissen bereitstellt. Insbesondere verfeinert und optimiert der Prozessor 413 für Fragen und Antworten den Freiform-Texteintrag des Benutzers, um den Bedarf oder das Problem des Benutzers mit ausreichender Detailgenauigkeit und Vollständigkeit zu beschreiben. Er nutzt Konzepte und Beziehungen aus der Ontologie, um die Fragen und die Reihenfolge zu ermitteln, in der die Fragen dem Benutzer angezeigt werden.
[0044]
Die Abfrageverarbeitungsschicht 416 kann ferner eine Prüfeinheit 414 für vorhergehende Abfragen aufweisen, um zu ermitteln, ob die Benutzerabfrage einer Abfrage ähnelt, die bereits zuvor durch das Abfragelogiksystem 400 verarbeitet wurde. Zuvor behandelte Abfragen und ihre Lösungen können in einem Wissensspeicher aufbewahrt werden, auf den das Abfragelogiksystem 400 zugreifen kann. Zum Beispiel kann die Benutzerabfrage einen Fall betreffen, bei dem ein Computer nicht mehr bootet, dieser Fehler durch die Installation eines bestimmten Programms verursacht wurde und dieses Problem zuvor durch das Abfragelogiksystem 400 verarbeitet und in einer Datenbank gespeichert wurde. Die Prüfeinheit 414 für vorhergehende Abfragen kann im Speicher nach Informationen suchen, die mit diesem speziellen Problem im Zusammenhang stehen, und dem Benutzer mit dem ermittelten Ablauf zur Beseitigung des Problems antworten, ohne die Benutzerabfrage erneut zu verarbeiten.
[0045]
Die Abfrageverarbeitungsschicht 416 kann andere Dienstleistungen 415 wie zum Beispiel Funktionen zur Festlegung von Folgeaktionen für den Benutzer aufweisen oder den Benutzer bitten, einen Problembericht, einen Beschaffungsantrag oder einen Online-Prozess bzw. eine Online-Aktivität zu erstellen. Andere Dienstleistungen 415 können feststellen, dass die Benutzerabfrage eher für eine Dienstleistung als für eine Suche geeignet ist. Zu Benutzerdienstleistungen können das Analysieren von Systemprotokollen, das Katalogisieren von Symptomen oder das Prüfen der Kompatibilität von Produkten, Modellen, Freigabeversionen usw. entweder für Vertriebs- oder Unterstützungsfunktionen gehören.
[0046]
Sobald die Abfrageverarbeitungsschicht 416 die Vollständigkeit und Detailgenauigkeit der Benutzerabfrage geprüft und bei Bedarf die Benutzerabfrage verfeinert hat, kann sie relevante Schlüsselbegriffe und Beziehungen über den Bedarf oder das Problem des Benutzers an eine Suchschicht 419 senden. Die Suchschicht 419 kann eine Suchmaschine oder ein Datenanalytikprogramm 417 mit Zugriff auf relevante Informationsquellen 418 wie zum Beispiel Datenbanken von Produktdokumenten aufweisen. Die Suchmaschine oder das Datenanalytikprogramm 417 kann auch auf das Internet oder ein Unternehmens-Intranet zugreifen, um sowohl in öffentlichen als auch privaten Bereichen nach Informationen zu suchen, die für die Abfrage relevant sind. Die Suchschicht 419 kann ein Ergebnisrangfolge-Dienstprogramm nutzen, um die Informationsquellen einzustufen, die mit den Schlüsselbegriffen der Benutzerabfrage am besten übereinstimmen, und um eine Menge der am besten übereinstimmenden Ergebnisse zurückzugeben. Die Suchschicht 419 kann anschließend die am besten übereinstimmenden Ergebnisse über die Benutzeroberfläche 302 an den Benutzer zurückgeben.
[0047]
5 veranschaulicht einen beispielhaften Benutzerbildschirm eines Selbstbedienungs-Unterstützungssystems gemäß einer Ausführungsform der Erfindung, z.B. des Systems 300, der einem Benutzer die Eingabe einer Benutzerabfrage oder Benutzerfrage über Produkte oder Dienstleistungen ermöglicht. Der Benutzerbildschirm 501 kann eine Benutzeroberflächenkomponente 502 aufweisen, in der der Benutzer eine Frage eingeben oder einen Dienstleistungsbedarf oder ein Problem beschreiben kann. Nach dem Auswählen der Übermittlungsschaltfläche 503 kann das Selbstbedienungs-Unterstützungssystem 300 einen wie in 6 gezeigten Folgebildschirm anzeigen, der den Benutzer zur Eingabe zusätzlicher Informationen über die Benutzerabfrage auffordern kann. Wenn der Benutzer in der Benutzeroberflächenkomponente 502 „Plattenlaufwerk ändern“ eingegeben hatte, kann das Unterstützungssystem 300 zum Beispiel den Benutzer bitten, auszuwählen, ob es sich bei dem Plattenlaufwerk um ein logisches Laufwerk oder ein physisches Laufwerk handelt, wie durch die Benutzerauswahlen 604 in 6 veranschaulicht. Darüber hinaus kann die Benutzeroberfläche 302 eine Benutzeroberflächenkomponente anzeigen, in der der Benutzer keine der Systemauswahlen treffen muss, sondern seine eigenen Begriffe eingeben kann. Diese Begriffe können anschließend vom Ontologie-Erstellungsprogramm 410 verwendet werden, um die Ontologie zu erweitern.
[0048]
Das Unterstützungssystem 300 kann den Benutzer weiterhin zur Eingabe zusätzlicher Einzelheiten über den Bedarf oder das Problem des Benutzers auffordern, indem es andere Benutzerbildschirme anzeigt, bis es feststellen könnte, dass die Beschreibung der Benutzerabfrage für eine Datensuche ausreichend vollständig und detailgenau ist. Zum Beispiel könnte das Unterstützungssystem 300 bei dem Szenario zur Änderung des Plattenlaufwerks den Benutzer bitten, die Art der Änderung des Plattenlaufwerks anzugeben, wie durch die Benutzerfrage 705 in 7 veranschaulicht. Sobald ein Abfragelogiksystem 400 eine entsprechend vollständige Beschreibung des Bedarfs oder Problems des Benutzers hat, würden seine Komponenten die Benutzerabfrage verarbeiten, wie unter Bezugnahme auf 4 beschrieben. Die Ergebnisse aus einer Suche nach Informationen, die für die Benutzerabfrage relevant sind, kann dem Benutzer als Dokumentenliste 806 in 8 angezeigt werden.
[0049]
9 ist ein Ablaufplan eines Prozesses gemäß einer Ausführungsform der Offenbarung, um eine Benutzerabfrage zu empfangen und auf der Grundlage einer bereichsspezifischen Ontologie zu analysieren und Informationen zurückzugeben, die für die Benutzerabfrage relevant sind. Der Prozess kann bei Schritt 901 starten, bei dem der Benutzer eine Abfrage oder Frage in Freitextform eingibt, zum Beispiel die Wortgruppe „Plattenlaufwerk ändern“. Bei Schritt 902 kann ein Prozessor für natürliche Sprache wie zum Beispiel die Verarbeitungsschicht 402 für natürliche Sprache des Abfragelogiksystems 400 Schlüsselbegriffe über den Bedarf oder das Problem des Benutzers aus der Abfrage extrahieren, z.B. „ändern“ und „Plattenlaufwerk“.
[0050]
Ein Ontologieanalysator wie zum Beispiel die Ontologieschicht 407 im Abfragelogiksystem 400 kann eine entsprechende Bereichsontologie analysieren und bei Schritt 903 die extrahierten Schlüsselbegriffe mit Konzepten und Beziehungen in der Ontologie abgleichen. Wenn das Abfragelogiksystem 400 feststellt, dass die Benutzerabfrage für eine Suche nicht vollständig oder nicht detailgenau genug ist, kann die Abfrageverarbeitungsschicht 416 gemäß Schritt 904 zusätzliche Fragen über den Bedarf oder das Problem des Benutzers erzeugen. Die Abfrageverarbeitungsschicht 416 kann ferner die Benutzerabfrage bei Schritt 905 auf der Grundlage der Antworten des Benutzers auf diese Fragen verfeinern, um ihre Vollständigkeit und Detailgenauigkeit für eine Suche zu erhöhen. Die Abfrageverarbeitungsschicht 416 kann die verfeinerte Benutzerabfrage erneut verarbeiten, wie durch die Schleife von Schritt 905 zum Schritt 902 gezeigt.
[0051]
Bei Schritt 906 kann die Abfrageverarbeitungsschicht 416 im Abfragelogiksystem 400 auf der Grundlage der verfeinerten Benutzerabfrage eine Suchabfrage erzeugen, die Suchbegriffe, Konzepte und Anmerkungen aufweist. Das Abfragelogiksystem 400 kann unter Verwendung der Suchabfrage bei Schritt 907 die Suchabfrage einer Suchschicht 419 zum Ermitteln von Informationen bereitstellen, die für das Problem oder den Bedarf des Benutzers relevant sind. Die Suchschicht 419 kann eine Suchmaschine oder ein Datenanalytikprogramm 417 verwenden, um Speicher 418 von Produkt- und Dienstleistungsinformationen zu durchsuchen. Außer dem Darstellen der Suchergebnisse für den Benutzer bei Schritt 908 kann das Abfragelogiksystem 400 gemäß Schritt 909 Benutzerrückmeldungen hinsichtlich der Relevanz der resultierenden Informationen erbitten.
[0052]
10 ist ein Ablaufplan eines beispielhaften Prozesses, dem eine Verarbeitungsschicht 402 für natürliche Sprache folgen kann, um eine Benutzerabfrage zu analysieren und relevante Begriffe und Einzelheiten über den Bedarf oder das Problem des Benutzers zu extrahieren und diese einer Ontologieschicht 407 bereitzustellen. Die Verarbeitungsschicht 402 für natürliche Sprache kann bei Schritt 101 starten, indem die Sprache der Benutzerabfrage ermittelt wird, z.B. Englisch. Sie kann bei Schritt 102 die Benutzerabfrage aufgliedern, um Verben und Substantive aus der Abfrage zu extrahieren. Die Verben betreffen im Allgemeinen die Aktionen, an deren Durchführung der Benutzer interessiert ist, und die Substantive entsprechen im Allgemeinen den beteiligten Objekten (wie zum Beispiel ein bestimmtes Produkt, eine bestimmte Situation oder eine bestimmte Technologiekomponente). Die Verarbeitungsschicht 402 für natürliche Sprache kann Verbindungswörter in der Anweisung wie zum Beispiel „über“, „in“ und „durch“ ignorieren (Schritt 103). Sie kann gemäß Schritt 104 an der Benutzerabfrage andere Aufgaben wie zum Beispiel Textaufteilung, Zerlegung des Textes in Token, Klärung, Rechtschreibprüfung und Normalisierung des Textes durchführen. Diese Aufgaben wurden zuvor unter Bezugnahme auf 4 beschrieben.
[0053]
Die Verarbeitungsschicht 402 für natürliche Sprache kann bei Schritt 105 Elemente (z.B. Schlüsselbegriffe) und Beziehungen in der Benutzerabfrage ermitteln (zum Beispiel „fehlgeschlagen“, „nach“ und „Installation“). Wenn Begriffe in der Benutzerabfrage vorliegen, die die Verarbeitungsschicht 402 für natürliche Sprache nicht erkennt, kann sie bei Schritt 106 auf ein Wörterbuch, einen Thesaurus oder ein Lexikon zurückgreifen, um deren Bedeutung und die Absicht des Benutzers leichter zu ermitteln. Sobald die Verarbeitungsschicht 402 für natürliche Sprache relevante Begriffe aus der Benutzerabfrage extrahiert hat, kann sie diese Begriffe gemäß Schritt 107 an einen Ontologieanalysator (wie zum Beispiel die Ontologieschicht 407) weiterleiten, um eine bereichsspezifische Ontologie zu analysieren, die mit der Benutzerabfrage im Zusammenhang steht, und die Begriffe mit Konzepten in der Ontologie abzugleichen.
[0054]
11 ist ein Ablaufplan eines beispielhaften Prozesses, dem eine Ontologieschicht 407 folgen kann, um relevante Begriffe aus einer Benutzerabfrage mit Konzepten und Beziehungen in einer bereichsspezifischen Ontologie abzugleichen. Der Prozess kann bei Schritt 111 starten, bei dem eine Ontologiekonzept-Abgleicheinheit 408 ein aus der Benutzerabfrage extrahiertes Token mit jedem Konzept in einer Ontologie (z.B. mit einem Knoten in einer Ontologiestruktur) und mit Attributen und Beziehungen abgleichen, die zu dem Konzept gehören. Zu Attributen können Teilkomponenten, Akronyme und Synonyme des Konzepts gehören. Bei einer Übereinstimmung zwischen dem Token und einem Konzept in der Ontologie kann die Verarbeitungsschicht 402 für natürliche Sprache bei Schritt 112 das Token in einer Anmerkung mit dem übereinstimmenden Konzept und dessen zugehörigen Säulen versehen. Zu den zugehörigen Säulen können Situationen, Aktivitäten, Produkte, IT-Komponenten usw. gehören, die Anforderungen an eine „perfekte“ Abfrage widerspiegeln.
[0055]
Wenn die Ontologiekonzept-Abgleicheinheit 408 eine Teilübereinstimmung zwischen einem Token und einem Ontologiekonzept ermittelt, kann die Verarbeitungsschicht 402 für natürliche Sprache gemäß Schritt 113 das übereinstimmende Token mit einer Anmerkung versehen, und bei Notwendigkeit kann das Abfragelogiksystem 400 die Teilübereinstimmung mit der Ontologie durch den Benutzer bestätigen lassen. Falls die Ontologiekonzept-Abgleicheinheit 408 mehrere Ontologiekonzepte ermittelt, die mit einem Token übereinstimmen, kann das Abfragelogiksystem 400 bei Schritt 114 mithilfe von Fragen an den Benutzer den Benutzer um Klärung und Auswahl der besten Ontologieübereinstimmung bitten. Der Benutzer kann gemäß Schritt 114 auf der Grundlage des Konzepts, der Säule und der Beschreibung des Tokens und der übereinstimmenden Ontologiekonzepte die korrekten Wörter auswählen.
[0056]
Das Abfragelogiksystem 400 kann den in 11 veranschaulichten Prozess bei jedem aus der Benutzerabfrage extrahierten Token durchführen und die Benutzerabfrage iterativ auf der Grundlage von Konzepten und Beziehungen aus der Ontologie mit dem Ziel verfeinern, die Relevanz von Suchergebnissen zu erhöhen. Auf der Grundlage der Analyse der Ontologie kann die Ontologiekonzept-Abgleicheinheit 408 eine Menge von Begriffen aus der Ontologie und deren Beziehungen ausgeben, die mit den aus der Benutzerabfrage extrahierten relevanten Teilzeichenfolgen übereinstimmen. Die Ontologieschicht 407 kann bei Schritt 116 die abgeglichenen Begriffe und Beziehungen der Abfrageverarbeitungsschicht 416 zur weiteren Verarbeitung durch das Abfragelogiksystem 400 bereitstellen.
[0057]
Wie oben unter Bezugnahme auf 4 beschrieben, kann die Ontologieschicht 407 gemäß Schritt 117 ein Ontologie-Erstellungsprogramm 410 aufweisen, um eine Bereichsontologie mit Begriffen und Beziehungen zu aktualisieren, die das Abfragelogiksystem 400 während des Verarbeitens von Benutzerabfragen ermittelt. Auf der Grundlage des tatsächlichen Bedarfs und der tatsächlichen Probleme und Informationen, die als Reaktion auf Benutzerabfragen ermittelt werden, erweitert das Ontologie-Erstellungsprogramm 410 somit die Ontologie und verfeinert im Laufe der Zeit ihren Inhalt hinsichtlich Vollständigkeit und Genauigkeit. Sobald der Prozess des Ontologieabgleichs abgeschlossen ist, kann das Abfragelogiksystem 400 abgeglichene Ontologiekonzepte an eine Abfrageverarbeitungsschicht 416 weiterleiten, um die Abfrage bei Bedarf mit zusätzlichen Benutzereingaben zu verfeinern.
[0058]
12 ist ein Ablaufplan eines Abfrageverfeinerungsprozesses, dem eine Abfrageverarbeitungsschicht folgen kann, um die Vollständigkeit und Detailgenauigkeit einer Benutzerabfrage zu ermitteln. Der Prozess kann die Abfrage mit zusätzlichen Benutzerfragen und -antworten verfeinern und nachfolgende Benutzeraktionen festlegen. Eine Abfrageverarbeitungsschicht 416 im Abfragelogiksystem 400 kann bei Schritt 121 starten, um zu ermitteln, ob Ontologieübereinstimmungen für eine Benutzerabfrage, die von einer Ontologie-Abgleicheinheit 408 zurückgegeben wurden, für eine Suche nach entsprechenden Informationen ausreichend detailgenau sind. Wenn die Übereinstimmungen nicht ausreichend detailgenau sind, kann der Prozessor 413 für Fragen und Antworten zusätzliche Fragen erzeugen und diese dem Benutzer stellen, um den Bedarf oder das Problem des Benutzers zu klären, wie zuvor unter Bezugnahme auf 4 beschrieben.
[0059]
Die Abfrageverarbeitungsschicht 416 kann gemäß Schritt 122 ferner ermitteln, ob die Benutzerabfrage ausreichend vollständig für die Verarbeitung ist. Zum Beispiel kann die Vollständigkeitsprüfeinheit 412 des Abfragelogiksystems 400 ermitteln, ob jeder Teil einer „perfekten“ Abfrage in der Benutzerabfrage vorhanden ist. Bei beliebigen fehlenden Schlüsseldeskriptoren kann das Abfrageverarbeitungssystem 400 bei Schritt 123 dem Benutzer zusätzliche Fragen mit dem Ziel stellen, jeden Teil einer „perfekten“ Abfrage zu erfüllen. Die Abfrageverarbeitungsschicht 416 kann bei Schritt 124 die Detailgenauigkeit und Vollständigkeit der Schlüsseldeskriptoren mit den zusätzlichen Informationen verfeinern, die der Benutzer als Reaktion auf die Fragen liefert.
[0060]
Bei Schritt 125 kann die Abfrageverarbeitungsschicht 416 auf der Grundlage von Informationen, die aus der Benutzerabfrage extrahiert wurden, schlussfolgern, dass die Benutzerabfrage eher für eine Dienstleistung als für eine Suche nach Informationen geeignet ist, z.B. für einen Austausch eines Produkts aufgrund eines Defekts. In diesem Fall kann das Abfragelogiksystem 400 anstelle der Fortsetzung der Suche nach Informationen den Benutzer an ein System zur Bearbeitung von Dienstleistungen verweisen. Des Weiteren kann die Abfrageverarbeitungsschicht 416 bei Schritt 126 Folgeaktionen festlegen und diese dem Benutzer anzeigen, wenn sie feststellt, dass Benutzeraktionen notwendig sind oder relevante Informationen benötigt werden, um den Bedarf oder das Problem des Benutzers exakt zu ermitteln.
[0061]
Wenn die Abfrageverarbeitungsschicht 416 feststellt, dass die Deskriptoren der Benutzerabfrage ausreichend vollständig und detailgenau sind, kann sie bei Schritt 127 die Deskriptoren an die Suchschicht 419 im Abfragelogiksystem 400 weiterleiten. Die Suchschicht 419 kann eine Suchmaschine oder ein Datenanalytikprogramm 417 verwenden, um Informationsquellen 418 wie zum Beispiel Datenbanken, Intranets oder das Internet zu durchsuchen. Die Suchmaschine oder das Datenanalytikprogramm 417 können aus den Quellen 418 Informationen im Zusammenhang mit der Benutzerabfrage ermitteln und die ermittelten Informationen über die Benutzeroberfläche 302 an den Benutzer zurückgeben.
[0062]
Der oben beschriebene Gegenstand wird lediglich zum Zweck der Veranschaulichung bereitgestellt und ist nicht als einschränkend zu verstehen. Verschiedene Abänderungen und Ersetzungen der beschriebenen Komponenten und Operationen können vom Fachmann vorgenommen werden, ohne vom Grundgedanken und Schutzbereich der in den folgenden Ansprüchen definierten Offenbarung abzuweichen, wobei der Schutzbereich im breitesten Sinne zu interpretieren ist, sodass er diese Abänderungen und gleichwertigen Strukturen umfasst. Wie dem Fachmann klar ist, können die hierin beschriebenen Systeme, Verfahren und Abläufe in einem programmierbaren Computer, in einer auf Computern ausführbaren Software oder in einer digitalen Schaltung verkörpert sein. Die Software kann auf computerlesbaren Medien gespeichert sein. Zu computerlesbaren Medien können beispielsweise ein Diskettenlaufwerk, RAM, ROM, eine Festplatte, auswechselbare Medien, Flash-Speicher, ein „Speicherstick“, optische Medien, magnetooptische Medien, CD-ROM usw. gehören.
[0063]
Dementsprechend können Aspekte der Offenbarung die Form einer vollständig in Hardware realisierten Ausführungsform, einer vollständig in Software realisierten Ausführungsform (einschließlich Firmware, residenter Software, Mikrocode usw.) oder einer Ausführungsform annehmen, in der Software- und Hardwareaspekte miteinander kombiniert sind, die im vorliegenden Dokument allgemein als „Schaltung“, „Modul“ oder „System“ bezeichnet werden. Ferner können Aspekte der Offenbarung die Form eines Computerprogrammprodukts annehmen, das in einem oder mehreren computerlesbaren Medien verkörpert ist, auf denen computerlesbarer Programmcode verkörpert ist.
[0064]
Es können beliebige Kombinationen eines oder mehrerer computerlesbarer Medien verwendet werden. Das computerlesbare Medium kann ein computerlesbares Signalmedium oder ein computerlesbares Speichermedium sein. Zu computerlesbaren Speichermedien können beispielsweise, ohne darauf beschränkt zu sein, ein elektronisches, magnetisches, optisches oder elektromagnetisches System bzw. ein Infrarot- oder Halbleitersystem bzw. eine derartige Vorrichtung oder Einheit oder eine beliebige geeignete Kombination des Vorstehenden gehören. Zu den genaueren Beispielen (unvollständige Liste) computerlesbarer Speichermedien zählen unter anderem folgende: eine elektrische Verbindung mit einer oder mehreren Leitungen, eine tragbare Computerdiskette, eine Festplatte, ein Direktzugriffsspeicher (RAM), ein Nur-Lese-Speicher (ROM), ein löschbarer programmierbarer Nur-Lese-Speicher (EPROM oder Flash-Speicher), ein Lichtwellenleiter, ein tragbarer Nur-Lese-Speicher in Form einer Compact Disc (CD-ROM), eine optische Speichereinheit, eine magnetische Speichereinheit oder eine beliebige geeignete Kombination des Vorstehenden. Im Kontext des vorliegenden Dokuments kann ein computerlesbares Speichermedium jedes beliebige vergegenständlichte Medium sein, das ein Programm enthalten oder speichern kann, das von oder in Verbindung mit einem System, einer Vorrichtung oder einer Einheit zur Befehlsausführung genutzt werden kann.
[0065]
Ein computerlesbares Signalmedium kann unter anderem ein im Basisband oder als Teil einer Trägerwelle übertragenes Datensignal mit darin verkörpertem computerlesbarem Programmcode aufweisen. Ein derartiges übertragenes Signal kann eine beliebige Vielfalt von Formen annehmen, einschließlich, ohne darauf beschränkt zu sein, einer elektromagnetischen oder optischen Form oder einer beliebigen geeigneten Kombination davon. Ein computerlesbares Signalmedium kann ein beliebiges computerlesbares Medium sein, bei dem es sich nicht um ein computerlesbares Speichermedium handelt und das ein Programm übertragen, senden oder transportieren kann, das von oder in Verbindung mit einem System, einer Vorrichtung oder einer Einheit zur Befehlsausführung genutzt werden kann.
[0066]
Auf einem computerlesbaren Medium verkörperter Programmcode kann unter Verwendung jedes beliebigen geeigneten Mediums, einschließlich, ohne darauf beschränkt zu sein, drahtloser, drahtgebundener Medien, Lichtwellenleitern, HF usw., oder unter Verwendung einer beliebigen geeigneten Kombination des Vorstehenden übertragen werden.
[0067]
Computerprogrammcode zum Ausführen von Operationen bei Aspekten der Offenbarung kann in einer beliebigen Kombination aus einer oder mehreren Programmiersprachen, darunter in einer objektorientierten Programmiersprache wie Java, Smalltalk, C++ oder dergleichen und in herkömmlichen prozeduralen Programmiersprachen wie „C“ oder ähnlichen Programmiersprachen geschrieben sein. Der Programmcode kann vollständig auf dem Computer des Benutzers, teilweise auf dem Computer des Benutzers, als eigenständiges Softwarepaket, teilweise auf dem Computer des Benutzers und teilweise auf einem entfernt angeordneten Computer oder vollständig auf dem entfernt angeordneten Computer oder Server ausgeführt werden. Beim letztgenannten Szenario kann der entfernt angeordnete Computer mit dem Computer des Benutzers über eine beliebige Art von Netzwerk verbunden sein, unter anderem über ein lokales Netzwerk (LAN) oder über ein Weitverkehrsnetzwerk (WAN), oder die Verbindung kann zu einem externen Computer hergestellt werden (beispielsweise über das Internet unter Nutzung eines Internet-Dienstanbieters (Internet Service Provider)).
[0068]
Aspekte der Offenbarung sind oben unter Bezugnahme auf Ablaufpläne und/oder Blockschaltbilder von Verfahren, Vorrichtungen (Systemen) und Computerprogrammprodukten gemäß Ausführungsformen der Offenbarung beschrieben. Es versteht sich, dass jeder Block der Ablaufpläne und/oder der Blockschaltbilder und Kombinationen von Blöcken in den Ablaufplänen und/oder Blockschaltbildern durch Computerprogrammanweisungen realisiert werden kann bzw. können. Diese Computerprogrammanweisungen können einem Prozessor eines Mehrzweckcomputers, eines Spezialcomputers oder anderen programmierbaren Datenverarbeitungsvorrichtungen bereitgestellt werden, um eine Maschine zu erzeugen, sodass die Anweisungen, die über den Prozessor des Computers oder anderer programmierbarer Datenverarbeitungsvorrichtungen ausgeführt werden, Mittel zum Realisieren der in einem Block bzw. in den Blöcken des Ablaufplans und/oder des Blockschaltbildes angegebenen Funktionen/Aktionen schaffen.
[0069]
Diese Computerprogrammanweisungen können ebenfalls in einem computerlesbaren Medium gespeichert sein, das einen Computer, andere programmierbare Datenverarbeitungsvorrichtungen oder andere Einheiten anweisen kann, in einer bestimmten Weise zu funktionieren, sodass die im computerlesbaren Medium gespeicherten Anweisungen ein Erzeugnis schaffen, das die Anweisungen aufweist, die die in einem Block bzw. in den Blöcken des Ablaufplans und/oder des Blockschaltbildes angegebene Funktion/Aktion realisieren.
[0070]
Die Computerprogrammanweisungen können auch in einen Computer, in andere programmierbare Datenverarbeitungsvorrichtungen oder in andere Einheiten geladen werden, um zu bewirken, dass auf dem Computer, auf anderen programmierbaren Vorrichtungen oder anderen Einheiten eine Reihe von Arbeitsschritten ausgeführt wird, um einen mittels Computer realisierten Prozess zu schaffen, sodass die Anweisungen, die auf dem Computer oder auf anderen programmierbaren Vorrichtungen ausgeführt werden, Prozesse zur Realisierung der in einem Block bzw. in den Blöcken des Ablaufplans und/oder des Blockschaltbildes angegebenen Funktionen/Aktionen bereitstellen.
[0071]
Die Ablaufpläne und die Blockschaltbilder in den oben beschriebenen Figuren veranschaulichen die Architektur, Funktionalität und Wirkungsweise möglicher Realisierungsformen von Systemen, Verfahren und Computerprogrammprodukten gemäß den verschiedenen Ausführungsformen der Offenbarung. Dementsprechend kann jeder einzelne Block im Ablaufplan bzw. in den Blockschaltbildern ein Modul, ein Segment oder einen Teil des Codes darstellen, der eine oder mehrere ausführbare Anweisungen zur Realisierung der angegebenen Logikfunktion bzw. Logikfunktionen aufweist. Außerdem sollte beachtet werden, dass bei einigen alternativen Realisierungsformen die im Block angegebenen Funktionen in einer anderen als der in den Figuren angegebenen Reihenfolge ausgeführt werden können. Beispielsweise können zwei hintereinander aufgeführte Blöcke tatsächlich im Wesentlichen gleichzeitig ausgeführt werden, oder die Blöcke können je nach der damit verbundenen Funktionalität manchmal in umgekehrter Reihenfolge ausgeführt werden. Darüber hinaus ist anzumerken, dass jeder Block der dargestellten Blockschaltbilder und/oder des dargestellten Ablaufplans sowie Kombinationen von Blöcken in den dargestellten Blockschaltbildern und/oder im dargestellten Ablaufplan mithilfe von bestimmten Zwecken dienenden, hardwaregestützten Systemen zur Ausführung der angegebenen Funktionen bzw. Aktionen oder mithilfe von Kombinationen aus bestimmten Zwecken dienender Hardware und Computeranweisungen realisiert werden kann bzw. können.
Claims (20)
Hide Dependent 
System zum Bereitstellen von Informationen im Zusammenhang mit einer Benutzerabfrage, aufweisend: ein Benutzeroberflächensystem (302) zum Empfangen einer Benutzerabfrage in natürlicher Sprache von einer Benutzerschnittstelle auf einem Bildschirm (501); einen Prozessor für natürliche Sprache (305) zum Aufgliedern der Benutzerabfrage durch Analysieren der natürlichen Sprache, um in der Benutzerabfrage relevante Teilzeichenfolgen zu erzeugen, wobei beim Analysieren der Benutzerabfrage in natürlicher Sprache Einzelheiten in der Benutzerabfrage ermittelt werden und eine Textsprache, falsche Schreibweise identifiziert wird, eine kanonische Form eines anderen Wortes in der Benutzerabfrage bestimmt wird, ein Begriff mit Bezug auf einen Bereich technischer Hilfe erkannt wird und semantisch eine Störung erkannt wird; einen Ontologieanalysator (306) zum Abgleichen mit Konzepten in einer Ontologie der relevanten sich aus dem Analysieren der natürlichen Sprache ergebenden Teilzeichenfolgen, die einen Zusammenhang mit der Benutzerabfrage aufweisen; den Ontologieanalysator (306) und eine Ontologiekonzept-Abgleicheinheit (408) zum Erfassen, über ein Ontologiemodell, von Elementen einer perfekten oder vollständigen Abfrage, die Informationen mit Bezug auf das Problem des Benutzers haben; die Ontologiekonzept-Abgleicheinheit (408) und das Benutzeroberflächensystem (302) zum Identifizieren von mehreren Ausgabebegriffen mit Übereinstimmung zu den relevanten Teilzeichenfolgen und Anfordern einer Auswahl eines der Ausgabebegriffe von dem Benutzer; den Ontologieanalysator (306) und den Abfrageprozessor (307) zum Analysieren der Benutzerabfrage in Bezug auf die Ausgabebegriffe und Beziehungen der Begriffe untereinander; einen Abfrageprozessor (307) zum Verfeinern der Benutzerabfrage auf der Grundlage der übereinstimmenden relevanten Teilzeichenfolgen und Ontologiekonzepte; den Abfrageprozessor (307) zum Erstellen einer Suchabfrage auf der Grundlage der verfeinerten Benutzerabfrage; und eine Suchmaschine (308) zum Durchsuchen einer Datenbank (309) nach Informationen, die für die verfeinerte Benutzerabfrage relevant sind.
System nach Anspruch 1, bei dem der Prozessor für natürliche Sprache (305) die Benutzerabfrage zur Verarbeitung durch eine Computeranwendung in Token zerlegt.
System nach Anspruch 1, bei dem die Benutzerabfrage Wörter und Wortgruppen aufweist und der Prozessor für natürliche Sprache (305) auf der Grundlage einer semantischen Analyse die Kontextbedeutung der Wörter und Wortgruppen ermittelt.
System nach Anspruch 1, bei dem der Prozessor für natürliche Sprache (305) an der Benutzerabfrage mindestens eine Aufgabe aus Spracherkennung, Textaufteilung, Zerlegung des Textes in Token, Klärung, Rechtschreibprüfung oder Normalisierung des Textes durchführt.
System nach Anspruch 1, bei dem der Ontologieanalysator (306) die abgeglichenen relevanten Begriffe in Anmerkungen mit Ontologieinformationen versieht und anteilige oder mehrfache Ontologieübereinstimmungen durch den Benutzer bestätigen lässt.
System nach Anspruch 1, bei dem der Ontologieanalysator (306) ein Ontologie-Erstellungsprogramm aufweist, um die Ontologie mit relevanten Begriffen und Beziehungen zu erweitern, die durch das System während des Verarbeitens der Benutzerabfrage ermittelt wurden.
System nach Anspruch 1, bei dem der Abfrageprozessor (307) ermittelt, ob die Benutzerabfrage vollständig und detailgenau ist, und die Benutzerabfrage mit Benutzerfragen und -antworten verfeinert, um die Vollständigkeit und Detailgenauigkeit der Benutzerabfrage zu erhöhen.
Mittels Computer realisiertes Verfahren zum Bereitstellen von Informationen im Zusammenhang mit einer Benutzerabfrage, aufweisend: Empfangen einer Benutzerabfrage in natürlicher Sprache von einer Benutzerschnittstelle auf einem Bildschirm (501); Aufgliedern der Benutzerabfrage durch Analysieren der natürlichen Sprache, um in der Benutzerabfrage relevante Teilzeichenfolgen zu erzeugen, wobei beim Analysieren der Benutzerabfrage in natürlicher Sprache Einzelheiten in der Benutzerabfrage ermittelt werden und eine Textsprache, falsche Schreibweise identifiziert wird, eine kanonische Form eines anderen Wortes in der Benutzerabfrage bestimmt wird, ein Begriff mit Bezug auf einen Bereich technischer Hilfe erkannt wird und semantisch eine Störung erkannt wird; Abgleichen mit Konzepten in einer Ontologie der relevanten sich aus dem Analysieren der natürlichen Sprache ergebenden Teilzeichenfolgen, die einen Zusammenhang mit der Benutzerabfrage aufweisen; Erfassen, über ein Ontologiemodell, von Elementen einer perfekten oder vollständigen Abfrage, die Informationen mit Bezug auf das Problem des Benutzers haben; Identifizieren von mehreren Ausgabebegriffen mit Übereinstimmung zu den relevanten Teilzeichenfolgen und Anfordern einer Auswahl eines der Ausgabebegriffe von dem Benutzer; Analysieren der Benutzerabfrage in Bezug auf die Ausgabebegriffe und Beziehungen der Begriffe untereinander; Verfeinern der Benutzerabfrage auf der Grundlage der übereinstimmenden relevanten Teilzeichenfolgen und Ontologiekonzepte; Erstellen einer Suchabfrage auf der Grundlage der verfeinerten Benutzerabfrage; Durchsuchen einer Datenbank (309) nach Informationen, die für die verfeinerte Benutzerabfrage relevant sind.
Verfahren nach Anspruch 8, das ferner das Stellen von Benutzerfragen aufweist, um eine vollständige Abfrage zu erreichen, und das Verfeinern der Abfrage auf der Grundlage von Benutzerantworten auf die Fragen.
Verfahren nach Anspruch 9, bei dem die Fragen und Antworten auf Konzepten und Beziehungen in der Ontologie beruhen.
Verfahren nach Anspruch 8, bei dem das Verfeinern der Benutzerabfrage das Ermitteln aufweist, ob die Benutzerabfrage vollständig und detailgenau ist.
Verfahren nach Anspruch 8, bei dem das Verfeinern der Benutzerabfrage das Ermitteln von Informationen über die Art, Umgebung und die Komponenten aufweist, die von dem Benutzerbedarf betroffen sind.
Verfahren nach Anspruch 8, das ferner das Erzeugen einer Suchabfrage auf der Grundlage der verfeinerten Benutzerabfrage und das Verarbeiten der Suchabfrage durch eine Suchmaschine (308) aufweist.
Verfahren nach Anspruch 8, das ferner das Festlegen von nachfolgenden Benutzeraktionen im Zusammenhang mit der Benutzerabfrage aufweist.
Computerprogrammprodukt zum Bereitstellen von Informationen im Zusammenhang mit einer Benutzerabfrage, aufweisend ein computerlesbares Speichermedium mit darauf verkörpertem computerlesbarem Programmcode, wobei der computerlesbare Programmcode aufweist: Programmcode, der so gestaltet ist, dass er eine Benutzerabfrage in natürlicher Sprache von einer Benutzerschnittstelle auf einem Bildschirm (501) empfängt; Programmcode, der so gestaltet ist, dass er die Benutzerabfrage aufgliedert, indem er die natürliche Sprache analysiert, um relevante Teilzeichenfolgen zu erzeugen, wobei beim Analysieren der Benutzerabfrage in natürlicher Sprache Einzelheiten in der Benutzerabfrage ermittelt werden und eine Textsprache, falsche Schreibweise identifiziert wird, eine kanonische Form eines anderen Wortes in der Benutzerabfrage bestimmt wird, ein Begriff mit Bezug auf einen Bereich technischer Hilfe erkannt wird und semantisch eine Störung erkannt wird; Programmcode, der so gestaltet ist, dass er die aus dem Analysieren der natürlichen Sprache ermittelten relevanten Teilzeichenfolgen mit Konzepten in einer Ontologie abgleicht, die einen Zusammenhang mit der Benutzerabfrage aufweisen. Programmcode, der so gestaltet ist, dass er über ein Ontologiemodell Elemente einer perfekten oder vollständigen Abfrage erfasst, die Informationen mit Bezug auf das Problem des Benutzers enthalten; Programmcode, der so gestaltet ist, dass er mehrere Ausgabebegriffe identifiziert, die mit den relevanten Teilzeichenfolgen übereinstimmen, und eine Auswahl eines der Ausgabebegriffe von dem Benutzer anfordert; Programmcode, der so gestaltet ist, dass er die Benutzerabfrage in Bezug auf die Ausgabebegriffe und die Beziehungen zwischen den Begriffen untereinander analysiert; Programmcode, der so gestaltet ist, dass er die Benutzerabfrage auf der Grundlage der übereinstimmenden relevanten Teilzeichenfolgen und Ontologiekonzepte verfeinert; Programmcode, der so gestaltet ist, dass er eine Suchabfrage auf der Grundlage der verfeinerten Benutzerabfrage erstellt; Programmcode, der so gestaltet ist, dass er eine Datenbank (309) nach Informationen durchsucht, die für die verfeinerte Benutzerabfrage relevant sind.
Computerprogrammprodukt nach Anspruch 15, bei dem der computerlesbare Programmcode Programmcode aufweist, der so gestaltet ist, dass er dem Benutzer Fragen stellt, um eine vollständige Abfrage zu erreichen, und die Benutzerabfrage auf der Grundlage von Benutzerantworten auf die Fragen verfeinert.
Computerprogrammprodukt nach Anspruch 15, bei dem der computerlesbare Programmcode Programmcode aufweist, der so gestaltet ist, dass er Informationen über die Art, Umgebung und die betroffenen Komponenten in Bezug auf die Benutzerabfrage ermittelt.
Computerprogrammprodukt nach Anspruch 15 bei dem die Benutzerabfrage in natürlicher Sprache vorliegt.
Computerprogrammprodukt nach Anspruch 15 bei dem die Benutzerabfrage ein Produkt betrifft.
Computerprogrammprodukt nach Anspruch 15 bei dem die Benutzerabfrage eine Dienstleistung betrifft.

JP7192026B2：

Description
（優先権の主張）
本出願は、２０１４年９月２日に出願された、Ｋｅｌｌｅｈｅｒ Ｇｕｅｒｉｎ、Ｇｒｅｇｏｒｙ Ｄ． Ｈａｇｅｒ、およびＳｅｂａｓｔｉａｎ Ｒｉｅｄｅｌらによる「Ｓｙｓｔｅｍ ａｎｄ Ｍｅｔｈｏｄ ｆｏｒ Ｆｌｅｘｉｂｌｅ Ｈｕｍａｎ－Ｍａｃｈｉｎｅ Ｃｏｌｌａｂｏｒａｔｉｏｎ」という表題の米国特許出願公開第１４／４７５，１８４号明細書に関連したものであり、同出願を基礎とする出願優先権を主張し、その内容の全体を参照により本明細書に組み込む。
（政府支援に関する陳述）
本発明は、米国国立科学財団（Ｎａｔｉｏｎａｌ Ｓｃｉｅｎｃｅ Ｆｏｕｎｄａｔｉｏｎ）によって授与されたグラント番号ＮＲＩ－１２２７２７７のもと、米国政府の支援を受けてなされたものである。米国政府は、本発明に対する一定の権利を有する。
本開示は一般に、ロボット機能表現および人間－機械（ｈｕｍａｎ－ｍａｃｈｉｎｅ）協働挙動の動的適応および再使用をサポートする一般化可能フレームワークを介した、人間－機械協働を可能にするためのシステムおよび方法に関する。
ロボットによる産業オートメーションは、溶接、裁断、プレス、塗装、重量物処理、精密材料加工、などの作業の規模拡大に多大な利点を提供することから、大規模製造において著しい成功を収めている。大規模製造におけるロボットオートメーションの成功は、その利用を中小製造業（以下、「ＳＭＥ」という。）にまで広げたいという長年の願望をもたらした。しかし、大規模製造とは対照的に、ＳＭＥの製造プロセスは概して、生産量が少なく、かつ／または製品が多岐にわたることを特徴とする。その結果、基盤施設、専門の社員、装置一式、および柔軟なロボットオートメーションのためのプログラミングを償却する能力が、ＳＭＥの場合は大きく減じてしまう。
ＳＭＥでのプロセスには、時として高レベルなカスタマイズを要する作業が含まれるため、必然的に人間の手による技術や判断が必要となる。たとえば、修繕作業および受注生産プロセスは、予期せぬ加工物のばらつきや設備改造に順応しなくてはならない。そのような場合、既存の人間中心型製造プロセスでは、効果的な人間集中型プロセスに加えて、その繰り返しや軽減以外では、どこで、どのように、ロボットオートメーションが有用であり得るかの判断が困難なこともある。数名の熟練社員を擁する、特注家具の製造に特化したＳＭＥを例にとる。このＳＭＥは、ドリル作業またはサンダ作業など、巧妙な動作を伴う反復作業をロボット・システムを用いて自動化することにより、自社社員の効率性および生産性の向上を図ろうとする可能性がある。しかし、この場合、流通しているロボット・システムは役に立たない。なぜなら、こうしたロボット・システムでは、ＳＭＥが自社社員の既存の作業知識および作業経験を活用することが不可能だからである。
したがって、先行技術が提示する、これらおよび他の問題を克服するためのシステムおよび方法が求められている。
多くの作業領域において、自動化されたロボット・システムは未だ活用されていない。なぜなら、こうしたロボット・システムとの柔軟かつ効率的な対話を可能にする、適切な協働システムが存在しないからである。こうした作業領域の例としては、ＳＭＥでのプロセス、物理的な在宅障害者支援、協働型ロボット手術、などが挙げられる。これらの作業領域では、作業を手動で行うことや完全に自動化することは、どちらも望ましくなく、現実的でもない。したがって、柔軟かつ効率的なユーザ－ロボット対話を提供し、ユーザ対話に関して、持続時間、複雑性、および制約が異なる広範な作業を通じて有効な、協働型ロボット・システムおよび方法が求められている。
さまざまな実施形態による、例示的協働型ロボット・システムは、広範な作業の実行に向けた一般化可能な方法で命令または訓練することが可能であり、再訓練することなく、優雅に作業間の切り換えを行うことができる。協働型ロボット・システムは、ユーザの役割とロボット機能の広がりに関して人間－ロボット協働動作をサポートするとともに、ロボット機能と、ユーザ・インタフェースまたは対話パラダイムである特定のユーザ対話機能へとロボット機能を関連付ける協働挙動とのセットを介して、人間－ロボット・システムをモデリングする。ロボット機能は、他のロボット機能と複合化すること、および特定の作業のために専用化することが可能である。作業を実行するために、協働型ロボット・システムは、工具アフォーダンスまたは工具挙動制約、工具根本動作、および知覚基礎訓練テンプレートなど、さまざまな作業関連情報またはパラメータを使用して、ロボット機能を動的に適応させることができる。特定の作業およびロボット機能について、協働型ロボット・システムは、利用可能なインタフェースの制約を受ける、作業を達成するためのロボット機能によって要求される１つ以上のユーザ対話モダリティを決定しなくてはならない。したがって、１つ以上のロボット機能および１つ以上のユーザ対話機能の構成物を含む協働挙動は、ユーザ対話のためのロボット機能の要件を満たすためにユーザ対話機能をロボット機能にマッピングしなくてはならない。
本開示の実施形態は、ロボット機能表現および人間－機械協働挙動の動的適応および再使用をサポートする一般化可能フレームワークを介した、人間－機械協働を可能にするためのシステムおよび方法に関する。具体的には、ユーザ－ロボット協働を可能にするコンピュータ実施方法が、ロボット機能および１つ以上のユーザ対話機能の構成物を提供するステップであって、ロボット機能が、１つ以上のパラメータのセットに基づいて、ある作業動作タイプを実行するために、ロボットの少なくとも１つの機能をモデリングする、提供するステップと、ロボット機能を、情報カーネルを用いて専用化するステップであって、情報カーネルが、１つ以上のパラメータのセットをカプセル化する、専用化するステップと、ロボット機能および情報カーネルに基づいて、ロボット機能要素を提供するステップであって、ロボット機能要素が、ロボット機能のインスタンスである、提供するステップと、１つ以上のユーザ対話機能に基づいて、１つ以上の対話機能要素を提供するステップであって、１つ以上の対話機能要素が、１つ以上のユーザ対話機能のインスタンスである、提供するステップと、ロボット機能要素を、１つ以上の対話機能要素に接続するステップと、１つ以上の対話機能要素に基づいて、１つ以上のパラメータのセットに関連付けられたユーザ入力を取得するために、１つ以上のＵＩを提供するステップと、ユーザ入力および情報カーネルに基づいて、作業動作タイプの作業動作を実行するために、ロボット機能要素を介して、ロボットの少なくとも１つの機能を制御するステップとを含む。
本開示の実施形態が持つさらなる目的および利点は、以下の記述に部分的に記載され、また同記述からある程度は明白なものとなるが、実施形態を実践すれば習得され得るものである。実施形態が持つ目的および利点は、添付の請求項において具体的に指し示す、諸要素および組み合わせによって実現され、達成される。
以上の概要および以下の詳述は、ともに例示的かつ説明的なものにすぎず、特許請求される実施形態を限定するものではないことを理解されたい。
本開示の実施形態による、種々の工具に関連した、種々の工具挙動制約の例を示す図である。 本開示の実施形態による、ユーザがモーション軌跡を指定するためにロボットのアバターと対話可能な没入型仮想現実環境を示す図である。 ユーザおよびロボットに結び付けられた機能の構成物を含む協働挙動の例を示す図である。 本開示の原理による、人間－機械協働システムの例示的一実施形態を示す図である。 本開示の原理による、人間－機械協働システムの例示的一実施形態を示す図である。 本開示の原理による、協働挙動によって要求される挙動構成要素を指定する挙動マニフェストの例を示す図である。 本開示の原理による、人間－機械協働システムによって提供されるユーザ・インタフェースの例を示す図である。 本開示の実施形態による、ロボット機能表現および人間－機械協働挙動の動的適応および再使用をサポートする一般化可能フレームワークを介した、人間－機械協働を可能にするための例示的方法を示す流れ図である。 本開示の実施形態による、人間－機械協働挙動の実装に向けた種々の機能およびリンクを提供するための例示的方法を示す流れ図である。 本開示の実施形態による、人間－機械協働挙動の実装に向けた種々の機能およびリンクを提供するための例示的方法を示す流れ図である。 本開示の実施形態による、人間－機械協働挙動を構成するための例示的方法を示す流れ図である。 本開示に即して、開示の実施形態を実行するための例示的コンピュータ・システムを示す図である。
添付図面に示す例示的実施形態について、以下で詳しく論及する。同一または類似の部分に対する言及には、各図面を通して同一の参照番号が適宜使用される。
簡潔に例示するために、本開示の原理は、主にその例示的実施形態を参照することによって説明される。ただし、同一の原理はあらゆる種類の情報およびシステムに対して等しく適用可能であり、その中で実装可能であること、ならびに、そのような変形形態はいずれも本開示の真の精神および範囲から逸脱するものではないことは、当業者であれば容易に認識されよう。さらに、以下の詳述において、特定の例示的実施形態を示す添付図面が参照される。これらの例示的実施形態に対し、本開示の精神および範囲から逸脱することなしに、電気的、機械的、論理的、および構造的な変更がなされ得る。したがって、以下の詳述は限定的な意味で捉えられるべきではなく、本開示の範囲は、添付の特許請求の範囲およびその均等物によって定義される。
人間にとって安全（ｈｕｍａｎ－ｓａｆｅ）な産業用ロボットの普及拡大は、ＳＭＥ、そして高齢者や障害者の補助や協働型外科ロボットなどの新たに浮かび上がってきた作業領域を対象とし、半構造化された諸作業のセットを中心に人間であるユーザとロボットとが対話を行う、協働型ロボット・システムへのかかわりに拍車をかけている。こうした作業領域で実行される作業の範囲は瞬く間に変わり得るため、完全な再プログラミングを必要とすることなく複数の作業に見事に適応する協働型ロボット・システムが求められている。
本開示のさまざまな実施形態には、協働設計および使用パターンの広範な集まりをサポートするフレームワークを介した、人間－機械協働を可能にするためのシステムおよび方法が含まれる。本開示のさまざまな実施形態による例示的人間－機械協働システムは、再使用可能なロボット機能表現の構成、動的適応、および管理をサポートすることで、１つ以上のロボットが持つ、運用、訓練、問題解決、または再作業といった特定のモードが、１人以上の人間のユーザによって少なくとも１つは可能になるような、一般化可能フレームワークを実装する。ロボット機能表現の動的適応には、工具、加工物、および／またはロボットの稼働環境について協働システムが取り込む一般化情報およびパラメータが含まれ、これらは協働システムによって一般ロボット機能表現へと記憶され、種々の作業動作用に再使用することが可能である。作業動作の種類としては、たとえば、モーション制約、モーション即時再生、軌跡生成、などが挙げられ得る。また、ロボット機能表現の動的適応には、特定の作業動作を実行するために、一般ロボット機能表現の専用化が含まれる。一般化可能フレームワークは、人間－機械協働挙動の構成、再使用、および管理をサポートする。人間－機械協働挙動には、機能表現の構成物（たとえば、ロボット機能およびユーザ対話機能）、および機能表現間のマッピングが含まれる。一般化可能フレームワークを実装することにより、協働システムは、多岐にわたる作業および作業動作の実行に向けて一般化可能な方法で命令または訓練を受けることが可能になり、再訓練や完全な再プログラミングなしにタスク間の切り換えを見事に行うことが可能になる。
本開示において、「ロボット」という言葉は、ロボットマニピュレータ、またはロボットマニピュレータのセットの代わりに使用される。一般に、ロボットとは、自動化または半自動化された製造用途向けの産業用ロボットマニピュレータまたは産業用ロボットマニピュレータのセットである。ロボットの包絡線空間（ｅｎｖｅｌｏｐｅ ｓｐａｃｅ）とは、ロボットのエンドエフェクタが届き得る空間内の点のセットを含む、ロボットが物理的に移動または到達可能なモーション範囲である。エンドエフェクタは、ロボットに取り付けられたツールエフェクタ、またはロボットに取り付けられたグリッパ型エンドエフェクタによって把持または固定された工具となり得る。たとえば、ロボットの包絡線空間としては、ロボットのツールエフェクタ・ポイント（以下、「ＴＥＰ」という、）が物理的に移動または到達することが可能なモーション範囲が挙げられ得る。ロボットのＴＥＰは、ロボットに取り付けられたツールエフェクタの点群中の基準点（たとえば、ユーザが選択した点、ツールエフェクタの端点、ツールエフェクタがロボットへと取り付けられている点、など）、またはロボットのエンドエフェクタによって把持された工具の点群中の基準点（たとえば、ユーザが選択した点、工具の端点、エンドエフェクタが工具を把持している点、など）として定義され得る。ロボットの包絡線空間が持つサイズと形状は、ロボットの座標幾何学に依存し、ロボットの構造（たとえば、ジョイントのタイプ、ジョイントの移動範囲、ジョイントを接続するリンクの長さ、など）や自由度（以下、「ＤＯＦ」という。）数といった、ロボットの設計に影響される。いくつかの実施形態では、ロボットの包絡線空間が持つサイズと形状は、ロボットに取り付けられたツールエフェクタ、またはロボットのエンドエフェクタによって把持された工具が持つ、サイズと形状にも影響される。ロボットは、そのロボットの包絡線空間内にあるすべてまたはほぼすべての点を通常は包含する、自身の最大稼働空間内で作業を実行することができる。協働システムは、１つ以上の制約を実施または適用するために、ロボットの稼働空間を、そのロボットの最大稼働空間内の点のサブセットに制限することができる。これについては、以下でより詳細に説明する。
一般化可能フレームワークを通じて、協働システムは、少なくとも１人の人間ユーザと対話して、少なくとも１つのロボットと協働して作業を実行するのに使用される作業知識を取り込み、その後、取り込んだ作業知識を、そのロボットおよび／または少なくとも１つの他のロボットと協働して別の作業を実行するために、効率的かつ移植性のある方法で適応させることができる。協働システムは、より多くの作業知識を取り込むほど有能になり、協働システムが有能になるほど、作業ごとにユーザに求める情報も少なくなる。さらに、取り込んだ作業知識の性質は、低いレベル（たとえば、多数の特徴点を手動で指定する）から高いレベル（たとえば、ポイント・アンド・クリック入力、口頭での命令、など）へと発展し得る。システム機能が向上し、ユーザとの細かな対話の必要性が減少すれば、協働システムは、新たな用途に向けてスケールダウンすることや、環境的な構造または造形が欠如したため伝統的に自動化が採用されてこなかった環境へ徐々に導入することが可能になる。
さまざまな実施形態において、一般化可能フレームワークは、（１）機能、すなわち、稀にしか変化しないパラメータに基づいて入力情報を出力情報または動作にマッピングする高次関数、および（２）協働挙動、すなわち、ある作業に関する少なくとも１つの未知の局面と、人間のユーザがその作業の完了に向けてロボットと協働するための少なくとも１つの適切なインタフェースとの間のマッピング、のためのモデルを定義し提供する。一般化可能フレームワークは、ロボット機能およびユーザ対話機能を含む、さまざまなクラスの機能を提供することができる。複数のロボット機能が、特定の作業に向けて専用化され得る再使用可能なロボット機能表現としての役割を果たすとともに、１つのロボット機能は、実行時における少なくとも１つのロボットの機能をモデリングし、ユーザ対話機能または他のロボット機能のどちらかと結び付くことができる。ユーザ対話機能は、入力コマンドの要求またはフィードバックの表示のどちらかにより、ユーザに１つ以上のインタフェースモダリティを提供する。一般化可能フレームワークによって提供される機能および協働挙動の使用を通じて、協働システムは、協働対話が持つ動的な性質を考慮することが可能な、柔軟な人間－ロボット協働に向けた環境構造を提供する。
協働システムは、１つの状況から情報を取り込み一般化することで一般ロボット機能を作製し、次いで、一般ロボット機能を１つ以上の状況固有パラメータでインスタンス化およびパラメータ化することにより、さまざまな状況、さらには新規の状況に向けて、一般ロボット機能を専用化することができる。一般ロボット機能は、作業関連パラメータのセットを要求する、ある種の作業動作を実行する工具タイプに属する取り付けられた工具を使用するために、ロボットの機能を少なくとも１つモデリングする。さまざまな実施形態において、協働システムは、３種類の作業関連パラメータに基づいて、種々の作業動作に対し、ロボット機能を動的に適応させることができる。３種類の作業関連パラメータとは、工具挙動制約または工具アフォーダンス、工具根本動作、および知覚テンプレートである。
ある工具に対する工具挙動制約は、その工具が持つ少なくとも１つの工具アフォーダンスに基づいて決定され得る。工具アフォーダンスとは、工具に備わった、ある実体（たとえば、ロボット、個人、別の工具、など）が自身を用いて１つ以上の動作を実行することを許容または可能にするような１つ以上の特徴、性質、属性、または特性である。協働システムは、モーションの実演、工具および加工物に関するパラメータ、ならびに１つ以上の作業動作をロボットの稼働環境に関連付けるパラメータを介して、情報を取り込むことができる。取り込んだ情報は、カプセル化および一般化した後、再使用可能なロボット機能表現に記憶することができる。たとえば、いくつかのドリルパラメータが２種類以上のドリルビットまたは加工物に対して有効となり、モーションを実演することによって、取り付けられたドリルビットの長手軸に平行な直線ドリルモーションなど、特定の状況に合わせて調整され得る、典型モーションを定義することができる。
協働システムは、特定の作業動作または特定タイプの作業動作を実行するための１つ以上のロボット機能をロボット機能の構成物へと構成し、ユーザ対話のためのロボット機能の要件を満たす１つ以上のユーザ対話をロボット機能にマッピングすることにより、協働挙動を作成することができる。作業固有または部分作業固有となるロボットの補助または増強を実現するために、協働システムは、所与の作業に固有となる必要性に合わせて、エンドユーザによる実演ならびに／または僅かなパラメータ化および対話により、ロボット機能の構成物を修正する、かつ／またはロボット機能を専用化することができる。協働システムは、新たな作業を実行するために、既存のロボット機能および協働挙動の動的適応をサポートすることから、単純な作業に向けた迅速なロボット訓練が容易となり、複雑な作業に向けたロボット訓練をより直感的にする種々の工具および加工物との柔軟な対話が可能になる。一般化可能フレームワークを実装することにより、協働システムは、ユーザ（たとえば、エンドユーザ、オンサイトのエンジニア、など）による単純かつ直感的なロボットのプログラミング、再プログラミング、訓練、および再訓練を、ユーザ対話、ユーザ実演、種々の工具および加工物との柔軟な対話、などを通じて行うことを可能にする。
協働システムは、作業知識および権限を、その知識を使用するために、ロボットへとオフロードすることができる。このことは、ロボット機能のインスタンスを、ロボット機能要素（「ＲＣ要素」）という形態で使用することによって実装され得る。協働システムは、ユーザがロボットと協働し、ロボットと対話し、かつ／またはロボットに入力を行うために、適切なユーザ・インタフェース（「ＵＩ」）要素を提供することもできる。このことは、ユーザ対話機能のインスタンスを、ユーザ対話機能要素（「ＩＣ要素」）という形態で使用することによって実装され得る。作業の実行に必要な機能要素のセット（たとえば、ＲＣ要素およびＩＣ要素）は、作業の複雑性に応じて異なり得る。なぜなら、作業知識、当該知識の使用権限、および作業を実行するために要求されるユーザ入力は、その複雑性とともに変化し得るからである。
（機能）
さまざまな実施形態において、機能は、稀にしか変化しないパラメータと定義される情報カーネルに基づいて、入力情報を出力情報または動作にマッピングする高次関数と定義される。一般性が失われない限り、このようなパラメータは、実行時に評価される関数となり得る。協働システムは、機能を使用することにより、動的かつ不確かな環境において、１つ以上のロボット動作を成功裏に実行することができる。
より形式的に言えば、機能Ｃは、Ｃ（κ）：γ→φと定義することができ、このとき、κは情報カーネル、γは機能に対する入力のセット、φは出力のセットである。情報カーネルκが定義されない場合、機能Ｃは、インスタンス化されていない、または一般性のものであり、よって入力γに作用する必要な情報が欠けているとみなされる。一般化可能フレームワークは、直列構成である
Figure 0007192026000001
および並列構成である
Figure 0007192026000002
という、２つの合成作用素の定義も行う。当業者であれば、本開示の精神および範囲から逸脱することなく、これら以外の合成作用素も可能であることは理解されよう。合成作用素の使用を通じて、機能Ｃは、他の機能を構成することができる。したがって、機能Ｃは、他の複数の機能のうちの１つの構成物となる可能性があり、その場合は１つの複合機能とみなすことができる。反対に、機能Ｃは、他の機能を含まない場合、１つの基盤機能とみなすことができる。
直列合成作用素である
Figure 0007192026000003
は、一般に非可換であり、下式のように、ある機能の出力から別の機能の入力への連結を表す。
Figure 0007192026000004
並列合成作用素である
Figure 0007192026000005
は、可換であり、下式のように、２つの機能の集合和を表す。
Figure 0007192026000006
並列構成において、出力φＡおよびφＢは、一般性が失われない限り、互いに素であると仮定される。なぜなら機能は、ＣＡまたはＣＢから矛盾する出力を選択する、決定関数を備えて構成され得るからである。加えて、両種の機能構成物は、複合化された機能に関する情報カーネルの集合和を要求する。
機能は、ユーザ対話機能およびロボット機能に分類できる。ユーザ対話機能
Figure 0007192026000007
は、入力コマンドの要求またはフィードバックの表示のどちらかにより、ユーザに１つ以上のインタフェースモダリティを提供する。なお、上式において、
Figure 0007192026000008
は、協働システムが利用可能なすべてのユーザ対話機能のセットである。
ロボット機能
Figure 0007192026000009
は、実行時における少なくとも１つのロボットの機能をモデリングし、１つ以上のユーザ対話機能および／または１つ以上の他のロボット機能と結び付くことができる。なお、上式において、
Figure 0007192026000010
は、協働システムが利用可能なすべてのロボット機能のセットである。ロボット機能の例を表１に示す。
Figure 0007192026000011
ロボット機能Ｒは、初めは一般性またはインスタンス化されていないものとなり得、この形態では、情報カーネルκのパラメータ化によって定義される作業空間および作業動作について一般化可能なものとなる。協働システムは、ロボット機能Ｒを特定の状況についての情報カーネルκでパラメータ化することにより、インスタンス化済みロボット機能Ｒ（κ）を形成することができる。次いで、協働システムは、インスタンス化済みロボット機能Ｒ（κ）を入力γと作用させることで、出力φを生成することができる。出力φは、例えば、１つ以上の特定の作業動作を実行させるためのロボットに対する命令である。
一例として、モーション制約を実施するロボットと協働して精密なドリル穿孔を行うという作業を実行するのであれば、協働システムは、２つの機能を必要とする。２つの機能とは、ユーザからポーズコマンドを受け取るユーザ対話機能、および、特定のドリルについて説明する情報カーネルが課す制約を受けるロボットを動かす一般ロボット機能Ｒｍｃである。一般ロボット機能Ｒｍｃの例は、表１に示している。ドリルの使用に必要な共通モーション制約を含む情報カーネルκｄｒｉｌｌを与えられることにより、協働システムは、一般ロボット機能Ｒｍｃをインスタンス化して、ドリルモーション制約を規定するためのインスタンス化済みロボット機能Ｒｍｃ（κｄｒｉｌｌ）を形成することができる。この例では、情報カーネルκｄｒｉｌｌが、ドリルの幾何特徴をデカルト制約にマッピングするためのパラメータをカプセル化し、協働システムは、これらのパラメータを、同じ特徴を有する任意の工具（たとえば、他のドリル）のために再使用することができる。さらに、協働システムは、一般ロボット機能Ｒｍｃをインスタンス化して、そのインタフェースであるγおよびφを変更することなく、ドリルのみならず他の工具にも制約を課すことができる。
（専用化機能）
さまざまな実施形態において、ユーザは、協働システムを使用して、指定されたパラメータのセット、実演、またはその他のユーザ提供情報に基づいて情報カーネルを定義する命令を通じた機能の専用化を行うことができる。命令は、ユーザによる実演またはパラメータ化を使用した、新たな情報カーネルの作成または既存の情報カーネルのパラメータ指定を行うための方法と定義することができる。精密なドリル穿孔を行うという上記の作業例を用いれば、ドリルするためのロボット機能Ｒｍｃを専用化するために、ユーザは、ドリルの幾何形状から制約された幾何形状へのマッピングを指定する命令Ｉｄｒｉｌｌを実行することができる。協働システムは、このマッピングをκｄｒｉｌｌにカプセル化することが可能であり、そうする場合はＲｍｃをＲｍｃ（κｄｒｉｌｌ）に専用化する。
協働システムは、種々の作業動作を実行するのに有用なさまざまな情報クラスに基づいて機能を専用化することができる。このクラスには、（１）工具挙動制約を使用する工具アフォーダンス、（２）ＴＭＰを使用するモーション軌跡、および（３）知覚テンプレートを使用する知覚基礎訓練が含まれる。たとえば、協働システムは、ユーザが機能を専用化する命令を実行したことに応答して、機能を専用化することが可能であり、このときの命令は、（１）工具の働きを記述し、作業動作を実行する工具の使用法に対する１つ以上の挙動制御を提供する、工具挙動制御、（２）作業動作を実行する際に必要な１つ以上のモーションを記述する、ＴＭＰ、および／または（３）ロボットの稼働環境に関する文脈において１つ以上の挙動制御を提供する、知覚テンプレートを指定するものである。当業者であれば、本開示の精神および範囲から逸脱することなく、機能を専用化するのに他の情報クラスが使用され得ることは理解されよう。
（工具挙動制約）
工具は通常、特に産業生産の分野における、特定のユースケースを念頭に設計されており、作業を実行する工具がなし得るモーションには制約を伴うのが普通である。協働システムによって実装されるフレームワークは、工具使用が持つこの態様を、工具挙動制約として形式化する。より具体的に言えば、ある工具と関連付けられた工具挙動制約は、工具の働きに関して予め形成された観念を記述し、１つ以上の作業動作を実行する際に、工具の使用法に対する１つ以上の挙動制御および／またはモーション制約を施す。工具挙動制約は、工具が持つ少なくとも１つの工具アフォーダンスに基づいて決定され得る。工具アフォーダンスとは、工具に備わった、ある実体が自身を用いて１つ以上の動作を実行することを許容または可能にするような１つ以上の特徴、性質、属性、または特性であると定義される。工具またはその工具と実質的に等しい特性および特徴を持った別の工具の使用が必要となる作業において、その作業をロボットが実行または補助することをユーザが望む場合、そのユーザは、工具に関連付けられた少なくとも１つの工具挙動制約をパラメータ化して、その工具が作業を実行するためにどのように使用可能であるかに関する観念をロボットに与えることができる。ユーザは、ロボットが工具を把持する箇所や取り付ける箇所など、工具に関する幾何形状を指定することにより、工具に対する工具挙動制約をパラメータ化することができる。
工具に関するロボット機能をモデリングする際、協働システムは、有用な動作を許容するゆえに、有用な動作を達成可能なモーションに対する制約が置かれる幾何特徴を、各工具または工具タイプが持つという事実を活用することができる。たとえば、ドリルの円筒状ビットは、ドリルのモーションを線に沿って制約するものであり、ドリルが穴あけに使用されるのであれば、取り付けられたドリルビットは軸並進方向を定義する。同様の制約は、穴あけパンチ器または板金プレス機にも適用される。別の例として、サンダまたは研磨工具は、一般に平らな作用面を持っており、このことが工具のモーションを、その平らな作用面に沿った接線方向の接触へと制約する。同様に、さまざまな工具挙動制約が、多くの場合直線か曲線に制限される裁断工具など、他の工具使用にも適用される。
より形式的に言えば、工具ｔは、３－ｔｕｐｌｅ ｔ ＝ ＜ｒ，Ａ，Ｇ＞と表すことができ、このとき、ｒは工具ｔの３次元（「３－Ｄ」）幾何形状の表現またはモデル、Ａ ＝ ＜ａ０、ａ１、…、ａｎ＞は挙動制約のセット、Ｇ ＝ ＜ｇ０、ｇ１、…、ｇｎ＞は表現ｒを基準とした把持構成のセットである。協働システムは、工具ｔを用いて、実質的に同一の特性および特徴を共有する特定の工具クラスに含まれる、特定の工具または任意の工具を表すことができる。固定されたエンドエフェクタ、ｇｉ ∈ ＳＥ（３）は、特定の工具関連位置であると仮定する。各挙動制約は、ペアａ ＝ ＜ｐ，ｑ＞であり、このとき、ｐ ∈ ＳＥ（３）は制約フレームであり、ｑは制約タイプ、すなわち、ｑ ∈ ｛ａｘｉｓ、ｃｕｒｖｅ、ａｎｇｌｅ、ｐｌａｎｅ、…｝である。工具ｔについて、協働システムは、工具ｔの表現ｒを制約タイプｑに適合させることにより、制約タイプｑに基づいて制約フレームｐを生成することができる。表現ｒは、工具ｔの全体または部分をモデリングすることができる。表現ｒの形をとる工具ｔの幾何形状を制約タイプｑにマッピングすることにより、協働システムは、再使用可能な情報カーネルκｔを形成して、ロボット機能Ｒ（たとえば、表１に示すモーション制約機能Ｒｍｃ）を、専用化済みロボット機能Ｒ（κｔ）へと専用化することができる。工具ｔがロボットに取り付けられている場合、協働システムは、専用化済みロボット機能Ｒ（κｔ）を作用させてロボットを制御することができる。種々の工具挙動制約の例を表２に示すとともに、図１Ａに例示する。
Figure 0007192026000012
ロボットが工具を把持または捕捉する際、協働システムは、その工具に関連付けられた１つ以上の工具挙動制約を使用して、たとえばヌルスペース投影法を使用することによって制約されたＤＯＦおよび外部制御されたＤＯＦへと工具動作を解明することを可能にする１つ以上の制約を定義することができる。たとえば、協働システムは、工具の３－Ｄ点群など、工具の幾何特徴の表現を用いて開始することにより、工具に関連付けられた工具挙動制約を指定することができる。協働システムは、ユーザに、既存の表現を選択させるか、新たな表現を生成させるか、または既存の表現を選択かつ修正させることにより、工具の表現を提供することができる。さまざまな実施形態において、協働システムは、工具の表現を自律的に提供することもできる。ユーザは、協働システムを使用して、点群の領域を工具の原点として対話的に選択し、次いで制約タイプを選択することができる。選択した領域および制約タイプに基づいて、協働システムは、工具の原点を基準とした、工具先端フレームおよび１つ以上の工具挙動制約を決定することができる。協働システムは、ユーザの選択に基づいて、工具の任意の領域を、工具挙動制約にマッピングすることができる。協働システムは、ユーザの選択または他の検討要素に基づいて、工具のＴＥＰとして、工具の点群からなる任意の領域を選択するか、工具の原点または工具先端フレームを使用することもできる。
たとえば、工具ｔ１はドリルであると仮定すれば、協働システムは、取り付けられたビットの表現ｒｂｉｔを含むドリルの３－Ｄ表現ｒ１を規定し、次いで制約タイプｑ１として「ａｘｉｓ」を選択することができる。よって、工具ｔ１がロボットに取り付けられる場合、表現ｒ１またはｒｂｉｔがロボットのモーションに軸方向の制約を課すとともに、ロボットは工具ｔ１を使用してドリル作業を実行する。表現ｒ１の形をとる工具ｔ１の幾何形状、および／または表現ｒｂｉｔの形をとる取り付けられたビットを、制約タイプｑ１にマッピングすることにより、協働システムは、再使用可能な６ＤＯＦ情報カーネルκｄｒｉｌｌを形成し、たとえば、（表１に示した）モーション制約というロボット機能Ｒｍｃを、専用化済みロボット機能Ｒｍｃ（κｄｒｉｌｌ）に専用化することができる。次いで、協働システムは、専用化済みロボット機能Ｒｍｃ（κｄｒｉｌｌ）を作用させて、工具ｔ１使用時のロボットのモーションを制約することができる。
（工具根本動作）
ＴＭＰは、ロボットが作業を実行するために工具を用いて行うモーションを記述する。その工具は、特定の工具、または類似もしくは実質的に同一の特性および特徴を共有する工具クラスに含まれる任意の工具となり得る。さまざまな実施形態において、協働システムは、工具関連の特徴およびパラメータを取り込みつつも他のパラメータは制約されない状態に保つという方法で、再使用可能モーションをＴＭＰとして表現することができる。ＴＭＰは、動的根本動作（「ＤＭＰ」）を拡張することができる。ＤＭＰは、モーションの構造を保持しながら再パラメータ化が可能な再使用可能モーション表現のための基礎を提供する。
ＴＭＰは、ロボットの稼働空間および／または環境の内部での、工具および１つ以上の点または他の制約に関する文脈において、軌跡データをカプセル化することができる。より形式的に言えばＴＭＰ Ｔは、Ｔ ＝ ＜ａ，ｄ＞と表現することができ、このとき、ａ ＝ ＜ｐ，ｑ＞は工具に関連付けられた工具挙動制約であり、ｄは実演された軌跡を意味する。ＴＭＰ Ｔは、工具挙動制約フレームｐ１…ｐｎのうちの１つにおいて構成されたＤＭＰとなり得、よって、協働システムは、何らかの任意のワールドフレームを基準としたロボットのエンドエフェクタの配向の代わりに、工具と軌跡フレームの間の相対的な配向または配列を取り込むことが可能になる。このようにすることで、ＴＭＰ Ｔによって専用化されたロボット機能（たとえば表１に示した、モーション即時再生機能Ｒｉｒ、または軌跡ジェネレータ機能Ｒｔｇ）は、異なる稼働環境に対して再パラメータ化が可能になり、そのモーションは、ＴＭＰ Ｔのもとで専用化された工具挙動制約を共有するあらゆる工具に対し適切に再使用することが可能になる。
協働システムは、初めにユーザの実演による軌跡データ、関連ＵＩ、またはその組み合わせを取得し、次いで工具の使用を伴うさまざまな作業で使用するための軌跡データを一般化することにより、工具に関連付けられたＴＭＰを生成することができる。軌跡データは、工具を使用して作業を完了するための動作を実行するのに伴う１つ以上のモーションを記述する。協働システムは、ユーザの実演を介して軌跡データを取得することができるが、このことは、学習モードに入り、ユーザにモーションを実演させ、軌跡データの取込みを目的に実演されたモーションを知覚または感知することによって行われる。
サンダ作業を例として用いると、ユーザは、開始点から外側へと進行する、サンダの表側を平面で用いた螺旋状のサンダ軌跡を実演することができる。協働システムは、この螺旋状のサンダ軌跡の様相、および軌跡の方向を基準とするサンダの配列または配向を取得または取り込むことができる。たとえば、協働システムは、サンダの表側が軌跡の方向に対して平行であることを取り込むことができる。協働システムは、開始点の文脈における螺旋状のサンダ軌跡、および螺旋状のサンダ軌跡の方向の文脈におけるサンダの配列または配向をカプセル化する、ＴＭＰ Ｔｓａｎｄｅｒを生成することもできる。
軌跡データの取得に続き、協働システムは、軌跡データを一般化することにより、ＴＭＰを生成することができる。協働システムは、ＴＭＰを新たな作業に向けて、たとえばユーザ指定の点および／またはその新たな作業に関連付けられた知覚テンプレートに基づいて適応させるか再パラメータ化することができる。さまざまな実施形態において、協働システムは、ユーザに６ＤＯＦポーズ軌跡に沿ったアドミッタンス制御を介してロボットを動かすことにより、ＴＭＰを取得することができる。協働システムは、ポーズ軌跡をＤＭＰまたはＴＭＰとして記憶することができ、これを使用して、ロボットの稼働空間内または環境内の１つ以上の対象点、および／もしくは１つ以上の知覚テンプレートを考慮した新規モーションを生成的に作成することができる。協働システムは、ロボットの初期ポーズを基準とするポーズ軌跡を記憶することも可能であり、それにより、新規モーションの生成時に、協働システムは、そのモーションを、何らかの任意の座標系ではなく、取り付けられた工具の工具先端フレームに制約することができる。工具挙動制約および機能内にカプセル化されたＴＭＰのために、協働システムは、得られたフレーム、幾何情報、軌跡、および他のデータを、他の機能が利用可能な少なくとも１つの小さなデータベース内に保存することができる。上記のＴＭＰ Ｔｓａｎｄｅｒの例を用いれば、協働システムは、たとえＴＭＰ Ｔｓａｎｄｅｒが表面が異なる角度で装着されたサンダを用いて記録されたとしても、螺旋状のサンダ軌跡を、たとえばサンダの表側に平行となる方向に、正しく適用することができる。
さまざまな実施形態において、協働システムは、工具を用いる作業の実行に伴う１つ以上のモーションをユーザが実演しているときに、工具に関連付けられた１つ以上の適用可能な工具挙動制約を実施することができる。より具体的に言えば、ユーザの実演中、協働システムは、ロボットの稼働空間を、ロボットの最大稼働空間内の点のサブセットに制約することにより、適用可能な工具挙動制約を実施または適用することができる。ユーザが自身による実演の中でロボットに指示または指導するために工具にまたは工具の付近に力を加える場合、ユーザによって加えられた力は、ロボット（たとえば、ロボットのＴＥＰ）が制約された稼働空間を外れてしまうような、１つ以上の望ましくない方向への、１つ以上の構成要素を持つ可能性がある。これに対処するために、協働システムは、制約された稼働空間内に留まるか、その中に復帰するよう、ロボットに命令することができる。ロボットは、ユーザによって加えられた望ましくない方向への力からなる構成要素のみに抵抗する、またはユーザによって加えられた力の全体に抵抗するなどすることにより、制約された稼働空間内に留まるよう命令され得る。ロボットは、ネガティブ・フォース・フィードバックを（たとえば、インピーダンス制御、振動または他の形態の触覚フィードバックなどを介して）提供すること、制約された稼働空間内のある点へとロボットを動かすこと、および／またはユーザにとって安全な場合にロボットを再配向することなどにより、制約された稼働空間へと復帰するように命令され得る。工具に関連付けられた適用可能な工具挙動制約を実施することにより、協働システムは、ユーザが、工具の使用方法を正確かつ効果的に実演することを可能にする。協働システムは、たとえば、工具に関する情報カーネルκｔｏｏｌを形成し、情報カーネルκｔｏｏｌを有するモーション制約機能Ｒｍｃを専用化済みロボット機能Ｒｍｃ（κｔｏｏｌ）へと専用化し、専用化済みロボット機能Ｒｍｃ（κｔｏｏｌ）のインスタンスをＲＣ要素として提供し、適用可能な工具挙動制約に従ってロボットが制御されるようにＲＣ要素を作用させることにより、モーションの実演中に、適用可能な工具挙動制約を実施することができる。
たとえば、上記のドリル作業を実行するためのドリルモーションをユーザが実演する間、協働システムは、ドリルを作動させながら、ユーザが直線モーションにのみドリルを動かせるように、ロボットに命令することができる。これにより、１回のドリル動作を正確に実演する際に、ユーザは補助を受ける。こうしたことを協働システムが実現するためには、ロボットの稼働空間を、ドリルに取り付けられたドリルビットの長手軸に沿った直線状の点のセットに制約すればよい。ドリルの作動中、協働システムは、ユーザがドリルビットの長手軸から外れるような力を加えてロボットに指示しようとした場合であっても、ドリルビットの長手軸に沿った方向へのみ動くようにロボットに命令することができる。こうしたことは、たとえば、ユーザによって加えられた力に関する、１つ以上の望ましくない方向への１つ以上の構成要素に抵抗する（たとえば、ユーザによって加えられた力に関する、ドリルビットの長手軸に沿った方向への構成要素のみを許容する）ことによって行われる。代わりに、または加えて、協働システムは、ユーザによって加えられた力とは逆の制動力によるネガティブ・フィードバックを提供させる、ユーザにとって安全であれば制約された稼働空間へと復帰させる、ユーザにとって安全であれば制約された稼働空間へとドリルビットが復帰するようにエンドエフェクタを再配向させる、などの命令をロボットに与えることができる。別の例として、上記のサンダ作業を実行するためのサンダモーションをユーザが実演している間、協働システムは、サンダの作動中、平面に対し接線方向となるモーション（たとえば、平面モーション）、または事前定義された表面に対し接線方向となるモーションにのみユーザがサンダを動かせるようにする命令を、ロボットに与えることができる。
（知覚テンプレート）
知覚テンプレートは、加工されている対象加工物に関する１つ以上の特性やロボットの稼働空間内の１つ以上の点など、ロボットの稼働環境に関連付けられた知覚データを基準に記述される１つ以上の挙動制御を提供することにより、制約された工具動作の定義をサポートする。よって、知覚テンプレートとは、稼働環境の文脈における１つ以上の挙動制御を提供するものである。より形式的に言えば、知覚テンプレートＰは、ペアＰ ＝ ＜Ｓ，Ｅ＞であり、選択された場面領域Ｓを、その場面における指定の幾何実体Ｅ ＝ ［ｅ１…ｅｎ］に関連付けるものである。場面領域Ｓは、３－Ｄ点群またはｒｅｄ，ｇｒｅｅｎ ａｎｄ ｂｌｅｅ ｐｌｕｓ ｄｅｐｔｈ（「ＲＧＢＤ」）データに関して選択された容積、ある画像に関して選択された２次元（「２－Ｄ」）領域、などとすることができる。複数の幾何実体Ｅのうちの１つの幾何実体ｅｉは、点、線または曲線、平面または表面、３－Ｄ空間、などの作業関連幾何特徴である。協働システムは、知覚テンプレートを使用して、工具挙動制約、ＴＭＰ、および他の作業制約を知覚データに教え込むことができる。工具挙動制約およびＴＭＰが、制約データおよびモーションデータを再使用するための機構を提供する一方、知覚テンプレートは、作業動作を実行するために指定が必要であるが、工具挙動制約またはＴＭＰによって取り込まれない、作業関連パラメータを提供する。
作業関連パラメータは、対象の加工物の位置および／または配向を基準に指定されるパラメータなど、ロボットの稼働環境に関してユーザが指定するものになり得る。代わりに、または加えて、協働システムは、ロボットの稼働環境を記述し、知覚テンプレートによって提供される作業関連パラメータと関連する、知覚データを取得することができる。協働システムは、知覚または検出（たとえば、センサ、カメラなどを用いる）、ユーザ対話（たとえば、対話によるセットアップ、ユーザの直接的な入力や選択など）、記憶されたデータ、またはこれらの組み合わせから、知覚データを取得することができる。協働システムは、適切な速度（たとえば、１Ｈｚ、５Ｈｚなど）で知覚データを連続的に取得して、ユーザが対象の加工物を位置変更したり動かしたりすることを可能にさせ得る。記憶されたデータには、加工物の種類に関連付けられたデータ値や、類似する加工物の種類に対して類似の作業を実行するために予め入力されたデータ値など、１つ以上の再使用可能な作業関連パラメータに関連付けられたデータ値および情報が含まれ得る。ユーザは、知覚および／またはユーザ対話を介して取得したデータおよび情報を、対象の加工物またはその種類に関連付けられた１つ以上の知覚テンプレートに記憶させることもできる。
さまざまな実施形態において、協働システムは、ロボット機能を作用させて作業動作を実行しながら、知覚データを取得することができる。知覚データの取得に続き、協働システムは、ロボット機能および任意の作業制約に関連付けられた任意の工具挙動制約およびＴＭＰを基礎訓練するために、知覚データに基づいて作業関連パラメータを指定することができる。したがって、協働システムは、ロボットを基準とした対象の加工物の位置および／または配向など、ロボットの稼働環境についての先験的な知識なしに、作業動作を実行しながら作業関連パラメータを再使用することができる。
流れていく部品に対して、ドリルを用いて半自動であるパターンの穿孔を繰り返し行うという作業を例にとれば、適用可能な知覚テンプレートＰｈｏｌｅｓには、加工物表面を基準としたドリル角度や、加工物表面上の１つ以上の点を基準としたドリルすることになる穴のパターンなど、例示の作業を実行するために指定することが必要となる、作業関連パラメータが含まれ得る。穴のパターンは、加工物の表面に対してある角度をとる線として表すことができる。ロボット機能を作用させて作業動作を実行している間、協働システムは、知覚テンプレートＰｈｏｌｅｓを使用して、対象となる加工物表面Ｓｗ、対象となる加工物表面Ｓｗ上の１つ以上の基準点、対象となる加工物表面Ｓｗの配向などの知覚データを取得することができる。流れる部品の各々に対して、協働システムは、知覚テンプレートＰｈｏｌｅｓを使用して、（１）部品について記述した関連する知覚データを取得し、（２）知覚データに基づいて関連する作業関連パラメータを指定し、（３）専用化済みロボット機能Ｒ（Ｐｈｏｌｅｓ）を形成するためにκ ＝ Ｐｈｏｌｅｓと設定することによってロボット機能Ｒ（たとえば、表１に示した軌跡ジェネレータ機能Ｒｔｇ）を専門化し、（４）専用化済みロボット機能Ｒ（Ｐｈｏｌｅｓ）のインスタンスをＲＣ要素として提供し、（５）対象表面Ｓｗを基準として指定された角度で、部品の対象表面Ｓｗ上の穴のパターンによって指定された位置にドリルするようロボットに命令するためにＲＣ要素を使用することができる。
知覚データは、１つ以上のセンサを使用して取得することや、ユーザや記憶されたデータから取得することが可能である。あるいは、これらの組み合わせによって取得されてもよい。たとえば、協働システムはまず、カメラによる入力奥行きデータを取得し、その入力奥行きデータ内の加工物の平面を１つ以上検知することにより、１つ以上の加工物表面およびその配向を知覚することができる。協働システムは、次いで、対象となる加工物表面、対象表面Ｓｗ上の１つ以上の基準点、および／または穴のパターンから、対象表面Ｓｗを選択するようにユーザを促すことができる。協働システムは、予め保存した穴のパターンをロードすることもできる。
（機能専用化用インストラクタ）
さまざまな実施形態において、協働システムは、指定されたパラメータのセット、実演、またはその他のユーザ提供情報に基づいて、命令を生成するためのインストラクタを少なくとも１つ提供する。インストラクタを使用して、新たな情報カーネルの作成、または既存の情報カーネルのパラメータ指定を行うことができる。これらの情報カーネルにより、協働システムは、ロボット機能を専用化することが可能になる。協働システムは、インストラクタを呼び出して、工具挙動制約、ＴＭＰの形態をとるモーション軌跡、知覚テンプレート、などの異なる情報クラスを取得することができる。
１つ以上の工具挙動制約の指定する命令を生成するために、インストラクタは、ユーザによって、またはロボットに取り付けられた工具に基づいて選択された工具の表現（たとえば、３－Ｄ点群）を提供することができる。この表現には、少なくとも１つの工具の原点が含まれ得る。インストラクタは、表現内の領域および制約タイプを選択することが可能であり、どちらも自律的またはユーザとの対話による選択に基づいて行われる。インストラクタは、次いで、選択された領域および制約タイプに基づいて工具の表現を制約タイプに適合させて、制約フレームを定義することが可能であり、よって、工具の原点を基準とした、ツールエフェクタおよび１つ以上の工具挙動制約を生成することができる。ユーザ選択に基づいて、工具の任意の領域を工具挙動制約にマッピングすることができる。インストラクタは、工具挙動制約を記憶し、またフォーマットされた情報カーネルという形態をとる工具挙動制約を指定するための命令を生成することができる。この工具挙動制約は、表１に示したモーション制約機能Ｒｍｃなど、１つ以上の工具挙動制約を要求する任意の機能によってロードされ得る。
１つ以上のＴＭＰという形態をとる、指定された工具または指定されたクラス内の工具を使用するための１つ以上のモーション軌跡を指定する命令を生成するために、インストラクタは、モーション軌跡を取得するためのユーザ・インタフェースを提供することができる。たとえば、インストラクタは、図１Ｂに示すような没入型仮想現実（「ＶＲ」）環境を提供することができる。ＶＲ環境を通じて、ユーザは、ロボットのアバターと対話してモーション軌跡を指定することができる。ユーザは、ロボットが工具が把持しているのと同じ位置に、３－Ｄポインティング・デバイスなどの仮想工具プロキシを保持し、任意の数の６ＤＯＦモーション軌跡を実演することができる。インストラクタは、実演されたモーション軌跡を選択された工具に関する１つ以上のＤＭＰとして記録し、そのＤＭＰおよび工具に関連付けられた制約フレームに基づいて１つ以上のＴＭＰを生成し、選択された工具または指定されたクラス内の工具のためにＴＭＰを記憶することができる。ＴＭＰを指定するための命令は、表１に示したモーション即時再生機能Ｒｉｒまたは軌跡ジェネレータ機能Ｒｔｇなど、１つ以上のＴＭＰを要求する任意のロボット機能によってロード可能な、フォーマットされた情報カーネルを生成する。
１つ以上の知覚テンプレートを指定する命令を生成するために、インストラクタは、ロボットの稼働環境内の場面を知覚し、その場面をリアルタイムで表示するとともにユーザがその場面内の１つ以上の点、線、または平面を選択できるようにする、ユーザ・インタフェースを提供することができる。たとえば、インストラクタは、ＲＧＢＤセンサを使用して場面を知覚し、その場面内の候補特徴（たとえば、加工物の角頂、縁、面など）を検知し、同場面および任意の候補特徴の３－Ｄ描画をリアルタイムで表示することができる。インストラクタは、候補特徴から、少なくとも１つの基準特徴を、自律的またはユーザ選択に基づいて選択することができる。インストラクタは、ユーザ選択に基づいてテンプレート特徴を選択し、各テンプレート特徴の相対位置、角度、配向、奥行き、または基準特徴に関する他の属性など、基準特徴の文脈において各テンプレート特徴を定義することもできる。たとえば、インストラクタは、加工物の候補表面を基準表面として選択し、ドリルすることになるユーザが選択した穴のパターンをテンプレート特徴として選択することができる。パターン中の各穴の角度は、基準表面を基準にして定義することができ、各穴の位置は、基準表面の２つ以上の縁を基準にして定義することができる。インストラクタは、候補特徴、基準特徴、および／またはテンプレート特徴、ならびに知覚テンプレート内の特徴間の関係を記憶することができる。知覚テンプレートを指定するための命令は、表１に示した軌跡ジェネレータ機能Ｒｔｇなど、１つ以上の知覚テンプレートを要求する任意のロボット機能によってロード可能な、フォーマットされた情報カーネルを生成する。
（協働挙動）
協働挙動には、１つ以上のロボット機能からなる構成物、１つ以上のユーザ対話機能、およびロボット機能とユーザ対話機能の間のマッピングが含まれる。ロボット機能は特定の作業動作または特定タイプの作業動作を実行するようロボットを制御するために構築および複合化され得るが、協働システムは、任意の特定のロボット挙動および機能レベルについて、ユーザが協働システムおよび／またはロボットと対話するのに必要なインタフェースをユーザに提供する協働挙動に依存する。少なくともこの面で、協働システムは、高レベルなユーザ－ロボット協働関係にのみ焦点を当て、低レベルなインタフェース要素は無視している、既存のロボット・システムとは異なる。
複合機能中の各ロボット機能について、協働システムは、ユーザにどういった入力を要求するか、ユーザにどういったフィードバックを提示すべきか、よって、どういったユーザ対話機能が要求されるか、に関する明示的な情報が必要となる。ロボット機能Ｒ ＝ γＲ→φＲが、合成作用素（たとえば、ｎ個のインスタンス化または専用化されたロボット機能｛Ｒ１（κ１）、…、Ｒｎ（κｎ）｝からなるセットに由来する
Figure 0007192026000013
および
Figure 0007192026000014
）を通じて複合化されると想定する。ロボット機能Ｒ、および協働システムが利用可能なすべてのユーザ・インタフェース機能のセットである
Figure 0007192026000015
について、互換関数である
Figure 0007192026000016
は、あらゆるフィードバック・ループは人間オペレータ（たとえばユーザ）を通じて閉じられることから、Ｒへの入力提供またはＲからの出力受容のどちらか片方のみを行う
Figure 0007192026000017
で、ユーザ・インタフェース機能の適切なセット｛Ｕ：γＵ→φＵ｝を選択し、下式の通りになる。
Figure 0007192026000018
よって、協働挙動Ｂは、ロボット機能Ｒの構成物と定義することができ、このとき、ロボット機能Ｒの構成物に対するすべてのユーザ対話要件は、ユーザ対話機能のセット
Figure 0007192026000019
によって満たされる。ロボット機能Ｒは、基礎ロボット機能または複合ロボット機能となり得る。図２は、ユーザおよびロボットに通信可能に結び付けられた機能の構成物を含む協働挙動の例を示す図である。協働システムは、ユーザとの間でどの情報をやりとりするかを制御するために協働挙動内の機能間のつながりは管理するが、機能に関連付けられたユーザ・インタフェースに関する個別の設計については一切設計も規定も行わないということに留意されたい。代わりに、機能の作成者または設計者は、機能に関連付けられたユーザ・インタフェースを自由に設計することができる。
モーション制約を実施するロボットと協働してドリルで正確に穴をあけるという上記作業例を実行するために、協働システムは、機能の構成物を生成および／または修正し、その構成物を協働挙動Ｂ１に記憶させることができる。例示の作業の場合、ドリルに専用化されたモーション制約であるロボット機能Ｒｍｃ（κｄｒｉｌｌ）は、少なくとも１つの６ＤＯＦコマンドをユーザに要求する。協働システムは、互換関数Δに基づいて、６ＤＯＦコマンドにマッチする要求出力を持った、フォース・ガイダンスというユーザ対話機能Ｕｆｏｒｃｅを選択することができる。したがって、協働挙動Ｂ１は、
Figure 0007192026000020
となり得る。協働システムは、同様の手法を用いて、ユーザによって手動でガイドされた位置に同様の穴をドリルするといった作業や、知覚テンプレートに関連して上述した半自動で流れる部品に対して穴のパターンを繰り返しドリルするといった作業例など、他の作業に向けたより複雑な対話要件を導出することが可能である。
（例示的実施形態）
図３Ａおよび図３Ｂは、本開示の原理による協働システムの例示的実施形態を示す図である。図３Ａを一例とする、さまざまな実施形態において、協働システムには、少なくとも１つのＵＩ３１０を介して、少なくとも１人のユーザ（図示なし）と対話可能な、コンピュータ３００が含まれ得る。コンピュータ３００は、デスクトップ、ラップトップ、タブレット、モバイル・デバイス、ロボット・コントローラ、サーバ、クラスタ他、これらの任意の組み合わせなど、当業者にはよく知られている汎用または特定用途向けコンピュータとすることができる。コンピュータ３００は、仮想マシン、物理マシン他、これらの任意の組み合わせなど、任意の好適なタイプの機械であってもよい。コンピュータ３００にインストールされるソフトウェアには、協働フレームワーク３２０、および少なくとも１つのオペレーティング・システム（「ＯＳ」）３３０が含まれ得る。
協働フレームワーク３２０は、機能、リンク、および協働挙動についてのモデルを定義し提供する、上述の一般化可能フレームワークの例示的実装形態である。協働フレームワーク３２０は、少なくとも１つのロボット３４０および／または１人のユーザと通信および対話をすることにより、協働挙動に関連付けられた協働／支援機能を学習および／または提供することができる。たとえば、ユーザは、協働／支援機能に関連付けられた１つ以上のモーションを、そのモーションを通じてロボット３４０に指導することによるユーザ実演を介して、協働フレームワーク３２０に教示することができる。協働フレームワーク３２０は、ＵＩ３１０を使用してユーザと通信および対話することや、ビジュアル・ディスプレイ、ポインティング・デバイスまたはコントローラ、キーボード／キーパッド、電気音響変換器、運動または触覚ユーザ・インタフェース他、これらの任意の組み合わせなど、コンピュータ３００の１つ以上の構成要素または周辺機器を介して、ＵＩ３１０を提供することができる。ポインティング・デバイスまたはコントローラには、たとえば、マウス、３－Ｄポインティング・デバイス、タッチスクリーン、タッチパッド、ジョイスティック、教示ペンダント、などが含まれ得る。協働フレームワーク３２０は、センサ、アクチュエータ他、これらの任意の組み合わせなど、ロボット３４０の１つ以上の構成要素を介して、ＵＩ３１０を提供することもできる。センサとしては、たとえば、力覚センサ、位置センサ、視覚センサ、触覚センサ、などが挙がり得る。当業者であれば、本開示の精神および範囲から逸脱することなく、他の構成要素および周辺機器を用いてＵＩ３１０が提供され得ることは理解されよう。
協働フレームワーク３２０は、ＯＳ３３０によってサポートされ、かつ／またはＯＳ３３０の上層に構築され得る。ＯＳ３３０は、市販、オープンソース、またはメーカ独自のオペレーティング・システム、もしくは、ソフトウェア機能の構成要素ベース構成ならびにネットワークおよびプロセス管理のためのミドルウェアとして機能することが可能な、ＲＯＢＯＴ ＯＰＥＲＡＴＩＮＧ ＳＹＳＴＥＭ（「ＲＯＳ」）などのプラットフォームのいずれであってもよい。本開示の原理と整合性のある、よく知られたオペレーティング・システムの他の例としては、ＬＩＮＵＸ（登録商標）、ＵＮＩＸ（登録商標）、ＯＲＡＣＬＥ ＳＯＬＡＲＩＳ、ＭＩＣＲＯＳＯＦＴ ＷＩＮＤＯＷＳ（登録商標）、ＭＡＣ ＯＳ（登録商標）、ＯＰＥＮ ＶＭＳ（登録商標）、およびＩＢＭ ＡＩＸが挙げられる。
図３Ａは、直接通信リンクを介することにより、ＵＩ３１０を提供し、通信可能にロボット３４０に連結されるものとして協働フレームワーク３２０が描かれているが、当業者であれば、協働フレームワーク３２０は、ローカル・エリア・ネットワーク、ワイド・エリア・ネットワーク、イントラネット、インターネットのような少なくとも１つの通信ネットワークを経由するネットワーク接続など、任意の好適なタイプの通信リンクを介して、ＵＩ３１０の提供および／またはロボット３４０への通信可能な連結がなされ得るということが理解されよう。また、当業者であれば、図３Ａに描かれた協働システムに属する、単一コンピュータ構成およびさまざまな要素の配置は単なる典型にすぎず、以下でより詳細に説明を行う、図３Ｂに示したものを一例とする他の構成および配置も、本開示の精神および範囲から逸脱することなく可能であることも理解されよう。
図３Ａに示すように、協働フレームワーク３２０には、協働挙動、ロボット機能、およびロボット機能インタフェース（たとえば、入力γおよび出力φ）間のリンクを管理する挙動マネージャ３２２、ならびに、ユーザ対話機能を管理するＵＩマネージャ３２４が含まれる。独立した別個のモジュールまたは処理として動作する挙動マネージャ３２２およびＵＩマネージャ３２４を用いることで、協働フレームワーク３２０は、ユーザ対話機能から独立かつ別個に協働挙動、ロボット機能、およびリンクを管理して、協働挙動の概念定義との一貫性を保つことができる。ロボット機能とユーザ対話機能を明示的に分離することにより、挙動マネージャ３２２およびＵＩマネージャ３２４は、物理マシンか仮想マシンかを問わず、機械が通信可能に相互連結されている（たとえば、ネットワーク化されている）限り、独立した機械上で動作することが可能になる。さらに、協働フレームワーク３２０には、以下でより詳細に説明を行う、図３Ｂに示したものを一例とする、１つ以上の機械上で動作するＵＩマネージャ３２４の複数のインスタンスが含まれ得る。協働フレームワーク３２０には、１つ以上の機械（図示なし）上で分散方式で動作する挙動マネージャ３２２の複数のインスタンスも含まれ得る。
（ロボット機能とリンクの管理）
さまざまな実施形態において、協働フレームワーク３２０には、ロボット機能を構成（たとえば、作成、修正、記憶、削除、など）する他、実行時を含むさまざまな状態でＲＣ要素を管理（たとえば、ロード、初期化、実行、停止、終了、アンロード、など）し、動的に適応（たとえば、専用化、一般化、再専用化、など）させるために、挙動マネージャ３２２を呼び出すことができる。協働フレームワーク３２０は、Ｃ＋＋、ＰＹＴＨＯＮなど、１つ以上のプログラミング言語でロボット機能を作成することが可能であり、また複合要素へと構成可能なソフトウェア要素として、ロボット機能を実装することができる。ロボット機能は、ＲＯＳノードを拡張するか、これに基づくものとすることができる。ＲＯＳノードは、ソフトウェア要素（たとえば、ロボット機能のインスタンス）間の分類された接続のための通信レイヤおよびインタフェースを提供するものである。協働フレームワーク３２０は、ロボット機能の入力と出力の間のリンクを、配信（ｐｕｂｌｉｓｈｅｄ）および購読（ｓｕｂｓｃｒｉｂｅｄ）されたＲＯＳトピックという形のリンク要素として実装することができる。
協働フレームワーク３２０は、ロボット機能に関連付けられたＲＯＳ ｌａｕｎｃｈファイルをコールすることにより、ロボット機能のインスタンスをＲＣ要素として提供することができる。協働フレームワーク３２０によって提供されたＲＣ要素は、インスタンス化されていない（すなわち一般性）、インスタンス化されている（すなわち専用化されている）、動作中、待機中、停止中、などを含めたいくつかの状態のうちの１つ以上をとり得る。一般ＲＣ要素は、自身のインタフェース（すなわち、機能の入力および出力）を読み書きするためのコード、および所望するタイプの作業動作を実行するためのコードを含むが、それと同時に、ＲＣ要素が機能するのに必要となる情報カーネルを受け入れる、インスタンス化されていない情報クラスを含む。協働フレームワーク３２０は、情報カーネルを、実行時にメモリにロードされ、情報クラスをインスタンス化することによりＲＣ要素を専用化するのに使用される、明確に限定してフォーマットされたデータファイルとして実装することができる。協働フレームワーク３２０には、情報カーネルを生成し、その情報カーネルをすべての機能要素がアクセス可能なデータベースに記憶する、少なくとも１つのインストラクタが含まれ得る。
協働フレームワーク３２０は、ロボット機能に基づく専用化されたＲＣ要素を、ロボット機能と、要素ｌａｕｎｃｈファイル内の必要な情報カーネルとを指定することによって提供することができる。協働フレームワーク３２０は、既に専用化されているＲＣ要素の情報カーネルを他の情報カーネルと交換することにより、実行時にその専用化されているＲＣ要素を再専用化することができる。表１に示したモーション制約機能Ｒｍｃを例にとれば、協働フレームワーク３２０は、ある工具に関連付けられたパラメータを含む情報カーネルを、モーション制約機能Ｒｍｃをアンロードする必要なく、異なる工具に関連付けられたパラメータを含む別の情報カーネルと交換することができる。たとえば、協働フレームワーク３２０は、専用化されたモーション制約機能Ｒｍｃ（κｄｒｉｌｌ）の情報カーネルκｄｒｉｌｌを、Ｒｍｃをアンロードする必要なく、新たな専用化済みモーション制約機能Ｒｍｃ（κｓａｎｄｅｒ）を形成するための情報カーネルκｓａｎｄｅｒと交換することができる。
（ユーザ対話機能の管理）
さまざまな実施形態において、協働フレームワーク３２０は、実行時を含むさまざまな状態で、ユーザ対話機能の作成、修正、ロード、アンロード、記憶、およびユーザ対話機能間での切り換えを行うために、ＵＩマネージャ３２４を呼び出すことができる。協働フレームワーク３２０は、複合要素へと構成可能なソフトウェア要素として、ユーザ対話機能を実装することができる。ＲＣ要素と同様に、ＩＣ要素もＲＯＳノードを拡張するか、これに基づくものとすることができ、よって、共通の通信レイヤおよびインタフェースをＲＣ要素と共有する。協働フレームワーク３２０は、ＩＣ要素を利用して、１つ以上の対話パラダイム（２－Ｄまたは３－Ｄディスプレイ、タッチスクリーンなどの周辺機器を用いたドライバまたは他のソフトウェア・インタフェースという形をとり得る）をユーザに提供する。たとえば、ロボットに取り付けられた６ＤＯＦジョイスティックをユーザが操作できるようにするアドミッタンス制御対話要素であれば、ユーザのモーションをアドミッタンス制御対話要素の入力γとし、命令されたポーズ出力を同対話要素の出力φとして、これらの間のマッピングを提供することが可能である。
（協働挙動の管理）
協働挙動を実装するために、協働フレームワーク３２０は、協働挙動に関するロボット機能の構成物を構成し、同構成物内のロボット機能のユーザ対話要件を導出し、導出したユーザ対話要件に基づいて同構成物内のロボット機能に対するユーザ対話機能のマッピングを行うことを目的とする、ツールを提供する。協働フレームワーク３２０は、構成物内のロボット機能間のリンクを指定することにより、構成物を構成することができる。さまざまな実施形態において、協働フレームワーク３２０は、かかる構成物を、挙動マニフェスト（ＹＡＭＬ標準、ＪａｖａＳｃｒｉｐｔ Ｏｂｊｅｃｔ Ｎｏｔａｔｉｏｎ、などに基づくデータ仕様またはシリアライゼーション形式によってフォーマットされたファイルとなり得る）を格納することによって構築することができる。各挙動マニフェストは、協働挙動に関する、１つ以上のロボット機能、ユーザ対話機能、およびリンクを、タグへとカプセル化することが可能であり、このタグのもとで、協働挙動に関して要求される機能およびリンクはリスト化される。１つ以上のｌａｕｎｃｈファイル（たとえば、ＲＯＳ ｌａｕｎｃｈファイル）および／または挙動マニフェストを含むファイルの中から、さまざまな機能を指定することが可能であり、１つ以上の配信および購読されたトピック（たとえば、ＲＯＳ配信および購読トピック）に基づいて、リンクを指定することができる。たとえば、協働フレームワーク３２０は、利用可能な機能を指定する１つ以上のｌａｕｎｃｈファイルを処理することが可能であり、協働挙動が要求するロボット機能、ユーザ対話機能、およびリンクをカプセル化する、挙動マニフェストを含んだ１つ以上のファイルを処理することが可能である。
図４に示す挙動マニフェスト４００は、ロボット機能、ユーザ対話機能、およびアドミッタンス制御協働挙動によって要求されるリンクを指定する、挙動マニフェストの一例である。挙動マニフェスト４００（ＹＡＭＬワイヤリング・フォーマット仕様となり得る）は、現在使用中の工具および／または現在加工中の加工物に基づいてロボットのモーションを制約するというオプションを、少なくとも１つのロボットに関する少なくとも１つのユーザ・アドミッタンス制御に付与する。挙動マニフェスト４００には、最上位キーとして挙動名４１０、および要求される機能またはリンクのリスト４２５ａ－ｃに関する下位キーとして挙動タグ４２０ａ－ｃが含まれ得る。リスト４２５ａには、要求されるロボット機能のセットを列挙することが可能であり、リスト４２５ｂには、要求されるユーザ対話機能のセットを列挙することが可能であり、リスト４２５ｃには、要求されるリンクのセットを列挙することが可能である。当業者であれば、挙動マニフェスト４００のフォーマットおよび内容は単なる典型にすぎず、本開示の精神および範囲から逸脱することなく、他のフォーマットや内容を用いることも可能であることは理解されよう。
始動中、協働フレームワーク３２０は、たとえば、協働フレームワーク３２０に関連付けられたプレフィックスを持つ任意のｌａｕｎｃｈファイルについてローカル・ファイル・システムを解析することにより、利用可能なロボット機能のリストを構築するように挙動マネージャ３２２に命令することが可能であり、また挙動マニフェストを含む任意のファイルを検索および読み込むこともできる。挙動マネージャ３２２は、実行時を含むさまざまな状態において、または少なくとも１つの協働挙動がエンゲージしている状態で、協働挙動のロード、エンゲージ、エンゲージ解除、アンロード、および協働挙動間での切り換えを行うことができる。ＵＩマネージャ３２４および／または協働フレームワーク３２０の別のモジュールは、１つ以上の管理ＵＩを定義および提供することが可能であり、ユーザはこの管理ＵＩを通じて、さまざまな管理機能を実行することができる。
管理機能には、さまざまな機能（たとえば、ユーザが利用可能であるものの、ロードされていない、ロードされている、インスタンス化されていない（すなわち一般性）、インスタンス化されている（すなわち専用化されている）、動作中、待機中、停止中、などの状態となっている、ロボット機能および／またはユーザ対話機能）のリストの閲覧、新たな機能の作成、協働フレームワーク３２０がロード、インスタンス化（すなわち専用化）、インスタンス化解除（すなわち一般化）、再インスタンス化（すなわち再専用化）、アンロード、交換、細部加工、修正、削除、などを行うための既存の機能の選択、および異なる機能のために同一の方法で実行可能な他の機能が含まれ得る。管理機能には、さまざまな協働挙動（たとえば、ユーザが利用可能である、ロードされている、エンゲージされている、などの協働挙動）のリストの閲覧、新しい協働挙動の作成、協働フレームワーク３２０がロード、エンゲージ、エンゲージ解除、アンロード、交換、細部加工、修正、削除、などを行うための既存の協働挙動の選択、および異なる協働挙動のために同一の方法で実行可能な他の機能も含まれ得る。たとえば、ユーザは、管理ＵＩを使用して、利用可能な協働挙動の一覧をブラウズし、協働フレームワーク３２０がロードおよび／またはエンゲージ、細部加工、修正、削除、などを行うための協働挙動を選択することができる。別の例として、ユーザは、管理ＵＩを使用して、任意のエンゲージされた協働挙動があるかブラウズし、協働フレームワーク３２０がエンゲージ解除、アンロード、交換、細部加工、修正、などを行うための任意のエンゲージされた協働挙動を選択することができる。
協働フレームワーク３２０またはその中の任意のモジュールが協働挙動をロードする命令を受信したことに応答して、挙動マネージャ３２２は、協働挙動に関連付けられた少なくとも１つの挙動マニフェストによって要求されるロボット機能の構成物を検索し、要求されたロボット機能のための独立した子プロセスとしてＲＣ要素をローンチすることができる。これにより、挙動マネージャ３２２は、たとえば必要に応じて、開始、停止、再開始、終了、または削除することにより、ＲＣ要素を管理、そして優雅に移行することが可能になる。こうした移行の間、挙動マネージャ３２２は、ロボットを一時停止したり、一時停止状態に入るようにロボットに命令および待機したりすることができる。
要求されたすべてのＲＣ要素をローンチした後、挙動マネージャ３２２は、協働挙動によって要求されるすべてのリンクに関する挙動マニフェスト、および／または要求されたＲＣ要素を監視することができる。要求されたリンクの各々について、挙動マネージャ３２２は、リンク要素、または、送信ノード（たとえば、所与のトピックに向けて配信しているＲＣ要素）を購読し、受信ノード（たとえば、所与のトピックに購読されているＲＣ要素）を配信するロジックを含む、明示的に生成された一時的な構成要素をスポーンすることができる。この抽出により、いくつかの利点が得られる。リンク要素を用いることにより、各リンクは、挙動マネージャ３２２内に直接リンク・ロジック（配信者および購読者）をスポーンさせるのではなく、自身のプロセスへと区分化されることが可能になり、それにより、挙動マネージャ３２２は、実行時のＲＣ要素間のリンクを容易に認識できるようになる。また、この抽出により、接続された機能要素のグラフ型構造が維持されることから、有用なイントロスペクションも可能になる。たとえば、ユーザは、すべてが挙動マネージャ３２２の中央ハブに接続されている多数のＲＣ要素ではなく、可視化ツール（たとえば、ｒｑｔ＿ｇｒａｐｈ、ＲＯＳグラフ可視化ツール）を介して、ＲＣ要素間の明示的な接続を把握することができる。
動作中の各ＲＣ要素およびリンク要素について独立した処理を用いる結果、挙動マネージャ３２２は、他のさまざまな挙動コマンドおよび管理行為を容易に実装および実行することが可能になる。協働挙動をアンロードするという命令に応答して、挙動マネージャ３２２は、協働挙動に関連付けられた動作中のＲＣ要素およびリンク要素を単純に終了することができる。既にロードされた第１の協働挙動から、要求されたもののロードされていない第２の協働挙動への切り替えを行うという命令に応答して、挙動マネージャ３２２は、第１および第２の協働挙動によって共有されている共通のロボット機能を見つけ出して、第１および第２の協働挙動によって共有されていないＲＣ要素およびリンク要素のみをロードおよびアンロードすることができる。
挙動マネージャ３２２は、さまざまな状態において、個別のＲＣ要素を加えるまたは省くことが可能であり、個別のリンクを作成または破棄することが可能である。たとえば、協働挙動のロード、さらにはエンゲージが行われた後、挙動マネージャ３２２は、１つ以上の新たな個別のＲＣ要素および／またはリンク要素を協働挙動に加えることが可能であり、協働挙動に関連付けられた１つ以上の個別のＲＣ要素および／またはリンク要素を省くことが可能である。協働挙動がエンゲージ状態にある場合、挙動マネージャ３２２は、協働挙動の機能をできるだけ多く保持しながら、個別のＲＣ要素および／またはリンク要素を追加または削除することが可能である。挙動マネージャ３２２に対する要求または命令は、サービス（たとえばＲＯＳサービス）として実装可能であり、よってそれらの要求または命令は、グラフィカルＵＩへの接続、またはプログラムに従っての呼び出しが容易になされ得る。
挙動マネージャ３２２は、協働フレームワーク３２０が実行中を含むさまざまな状態にあるときに、個別のＲＣ要素を動的に適応させることもできる。たとえば、ＲＣ要素のロード後、挙動マネージャ３２２は、１つ以上の命令を通じて定義された情報カーネルを有するＲＣ要素をインスタンス化または専用化することができる。挙動マネージャ３２２は、ＲＣ要素から既存の情報カーネルを切り離すことにより、専用化されたＲＣ要素をインスタンス化解除または一般化することができる。挙動マネージャ３２２は、既存の情報カーネルを新たな情報カーネルと交換することで、専用化されたＲＣ要素を再インスタンス化または再専用化することもできる。
上述の通り、協働フレームワーク３２０は、ＲＣ要素またはリンク要素とは独立かつ別個に、協働挙動に関連付けられたＩＣ要素を管理することができる。協働挙動に関するＵＩ要件を満たすために、協働フレームワーク３２０のＵＩマネージャ３２４は、利用可能なユーザ対話機能に基づくＩＣ要素のセットを提供することができる。ＵＩマネージャ３２４は、挙動マネージャ３２２がＲＣ要素をローンチするのと同様の方法で、独立した処理としてＩＣ要素をローンチすることが可能であり、それにより、動作中のＩＣ要素間での管理および移行がなされるとき、上述のものと同様の機能および利点をＵＩマネージャ３２４に提供する。さらに、ＩＣ要素は、ＲＣ要素およびリンク要素から独立した処理としてローンチされる。しかし、ＵＩマネージャ３２４は、動作中のＩＣ要素間の明示的なリンクを定義しない。代わりに、ＵＩマネージャ３２４は、Δ（すなわち、互換関数）という上述した観念を利用して、特定のＲＣ要素についてのＩＣ要素の妥当性を判断することができる。さまざまな実施形態において、協働挙動に関連付けられた互換関数は、協働フレームワーク３２０によるロード時に当該協働挙動のために特定のＩＣ要素が要求されることを明記することができ、このことは、協働挙動自身により（たとえば、挙動マニフェスト内で）、または協働挙動内の少なくとも１つの特定のロボット機能により（たとえば、ｌａｕｎｃｈファイル内で）行われる。図５は、サンダに関連付けられた工具挙動制約をユーザに選択および／または適用させるＩＣ要素によって提供された工具挙動ＵＩ要素５１０が格納されたＵＩ５００の一例を描いており、ＵＩ５００については、処理の一例にからめて以下でより詳細に説明する。
さまざまな実施形態において、協働フレームワーク３２０は、互換関数Δに従い、ロボット機能に関する協働挙動の構成物内のロボット機能に関するすべてのユーザ対話要件を満たすことにより、協働挙動を作成することができる。ＲＣ要素として構成物内の各ロボット機能をロードした後、協働フレームワーク３２０は、ロボット機能に関するｌａｕｎｃｈファイル内にリストされた要件に基づいてロボット機能によって要求されたユーザ対話機能を判断することができる。ロボット機能の要件は、１つ以上の明示的に要求されたユーザ対話機能および／または１つ以上の抽象インタフェース要件のリストをリストすることができる。たとえば、工具モーション制約機能は、ジョイスティックを用いたデカルト制御のために特定のユーザ対話機能を要求することができる。工具モーション制約機能は、テキスト・フィールド、ボタン、およびトグルなど、１つ以上の抽象インタフェース要件のリストを提供することもできる。協働フレームワーク３２０は、抽象インタフェース要件のリストを解析し、どのユーザ対話機能が抽象インタフェース要件にマッチするか判断することができる。次いで、協働フレームワーク３２０は、要求されたＩＣ要素を検索およびロードし、各ＩＣ要素を、ＩＣ要素またはＩＣ要素によって提供されるユーザ・インタフェースを要求する１つ以上のＲＣ要素へ接続することができる。
協働フレームワーク３２０またはその中の任意のモジュールが協働挙動をロードする命令を受信したことに応答して、ＵＩマネージャ３２４は、協働挙動に関連付けられた挙動マニフェスト内にＵＩ要件としてリストされるすべてのＩＣ要素を自動的にロードすることができる。加えて、協働フレームワーク３２０が、全体としてこれらの協働挙動を超える特定のＵＩ要件を持つ１つ以上の要件の高いＲＣ要素をロードする場合、要件の高いＲＣ要素は、自身のＵＩ要件を、ロード処理中に、データ用に共有されたメモリ・スペース（たとえば、ＲＯＳパラメータ・サーバ）上でブロードキャストすることができる。ブロードキャストされたＵＩ要件に応答して、ＵＩマネージャ３２４は、要件の高いＲＣ要素によって要求されたＩＣ要素をロードすることができる。協働挙動および／または何らかの要件の高いＲＣ要素によって要求されたＩＣ要素をロードしたことに続いて、ＵＩマネージャ３２４は、ＵＩ要件として適切な１つ以上のＵＩ要素を提供し、何らかの必要な接続を確立するために、ロードされたＩＣ要素をコールすることができる。ＵＩが協働挙動のために必要な対話モダリティをユーザへと確実に提供するように、協働挙動の作成者または設計者は、少なくとも協働挙動に関するＵＩ要件の最小セットを明示的に指定する必要がある。
図３Ｂに示したものを一例とする、さまざまな実施形態において、協働システムには、独立したコンピュータ（図示なし）のグループ上で動作するモジュールを有する分散型協働フレームワーク３５０が含まれ得る。コンピュータのグループには、複数の汎用または特定用途向けコンピュータが含まれ得る。その例として、クライアント－サーバ・ネットワーク、ピア・ツー・ピア・ネットワーク、コンピュータ・クラスタ、グリッド、クラウド他、これらの任意の組み合わせが挙がり得る。コンピュータは、少なくとも１つのネットワーク３６０を介して通信可能に連結された任意のタイプ（たとえば、物理的、仮想的など）の機械とすることができる。ネットワーク３６０としては、ローカル・エリア・ネットワーク、ワイド・エリア・ネットワーク、イントラネット、インターネットなど、任意の好適なタイプの１つ以上の通信ネットワークが挙がり得る。たとえば、コンピュータのグループには、ＲＯＳ上でネットワーク化された、独立した機械が含まれ得る。グループ内の各コンピュータは、同グループ内の少なくとも１つの他のコンピュータと通信可能に連結（たとえば、ネットワーク化）し得る。コンピュータのグループにインストールされたソフトウェアには、分散型協働フレームワーク３５０のモジュールおよび１つ以上のオペレーティング・システムの複数のインスタンス（図示なし）が含まれ得る。分散型協働フレームワーク３５０のモジュールは、オペレーティング・システムによってサポートされ、かつ／またはオペレーティング・システムの上層に構築され得る。このオペレーティング・システムは、市販、オープンソース、メーカ独自、またはＲＯＳや他の好適なオペレーティング・システムもしくはプラットフォームのいずれであってもよい。
分散型協働フレームワーク３５０のモジュールには、ＲＣ要素およびリンク要素を管理する挙動マネージャ３５２と、ＩＣ要素を管理するＵＩマネージャの１つ以上のインスタンス３５４とが含まれ得る。分散型協働フレームワーク３５０は、１つ以上のＵＩ３７０を使用して、１人以上のユーザと通信および対話することができる。このことは、コンピュータの１つ以上の構成要素もしくは周辺機器および／またはロボット３８０の１つ以上の構成要素を介してＵＩ３７０を提供することによって行われる。当業者であれば、本開示の精神および範囲から逸脱することなく、他の構成要素および周辺機器を介してＵＩ３７０が提供され得ることは理解されよう。分散型協働フレームワーク３５０は、ネットワーク３６０を介し、１つ以上のロボット３８０および／またはそのユーザと通信および対話をすることにより、協働挙動に関連付けられた協働／支援機能を学習および／または提供することができる。
協働フレームワーク３５０内でＲＣ要素とＩＣ要素を明示的に分割することにより、挙動マネージャ３５２およびＵＩマネージャ・インスタンス３５４のうちの少なくとも１つのインスタンスは、別々のコンピュータ上で動作することが可能になる。このような構成の柔軟性は、分散型協働フレームワーク３５０が、小さなＵＩフロント・エンドを持ちながらも、論理構成要素およびリンクを管理するために１つ以上の高い計算能力を要求する論理モジュールを必要とするシナリオにおいて、有用なものとなり得る。これらのシナリオにおけるパフォーマンスを最適化するために、分散型協働フレームワーク３５０は、計算能力の高いリモートなコンピュータまたはコンピュータ・クラスタ（図示なし）上で挙動マネージャ３５２を動作させ、ＵＩマネージャ・インスタンス３５４の１つ以上の分散インスタンスを、デスクトップ、ラップトップ、タブレット、モバイル・デバイス、ロボット・コントローラ、などの１つ以上の計算能力に劣るローカルなコンピュータ（図示なし）上で動作させることができる。
さらに、ＵＩマネージャ・インスタンス３５４は、ＵＩ３７０における、１つ以上の表示パラメータおよび各要素が持つ他の特性を、ローカルのコンピュータに接続された構成要素または周辺機器（たとえばディスプレイ）のタイプおよび性質に基づいてカスタマイズすることができる。たとえば、小型タッチスクリーン・タブレットに表示されたＵＩ３７０のうちの１つのＵＩ要素は、タッチ対話のために調整されたより大きなボタンを持つよりコンパクトなものとすることができる。別の例として、仮想現実デバイスを介して表示されているＵＩ３７０のうちの１つのＵＩ要素には、没入型ＵＩ要素が含まれ得る。ＵＩマネージャ・インスタンス３５４を別々のコンピュータへと分散させること、およびＵＩ３７０内のＵＩ要素をカスタマイズすることを可能にする分散型協働フレームワーク３５０が持つ構成の柔軟性により、分散型協働フレームワーク３５０がユーザと対話するのに用いるハードウェア・プラットフォームに基づいて自動的にＵＩ３７０が構成されることを可能にする領域特定の対話が可能になる。
図３Ａおよび図３Ｂに示し本明細書で説明したような協働システムの例示的実施形態は、諸概念を具体的に提示することを意図したものであり、当業者がこれらの実施形態を実践できるように十分詳細に説明されている。ただし、本開示の範囲から逸脱することなく、他の実施形態も利用可能であり、変更もなされ得る。
図６は、本開示の実施形態による、再使用可能な機能表現の作成、動的適応、および管理、ならびに人間－機械協働挙動の作成、再使用、および管理をサポートする一般化可能フレームワークによって実行される処理６００の流れ図である。処理６００は、図３Ａに示した協働フレームワーク３２０または図３Ｂに示した分散型協働フレームワーク３５０などの協働フレームワークによって実行され得る。処理６００は、協働フレームワークをローンチまたは提供することによって開始可能である。あるいは、処理６００は、協働フレームワークのローンチ中またはローンチ後に開始可能である。
ブロック６０２において、協働フレームワークは、挙動マネージャ（たとえば、挙動マネージャ３２２、３５２）の少なくとも１つのインスタンスおよびＵＩマネージャ（たとえば、ＵＩマネージャ３２４、３５４）の少なくとも１つのインスタンスを含む、モジュールを提供することができる。挙動マネージャおよびＵＩマネージャのインスタンスは、各々が独立した処理としてローンチおよび実行されることが可能であり、したがって、異なるコンピュータまたは機械上で動作することができる。起動中および／または起動後、協働フレームワークは、利用可能な機能および／または協働挙動のリストを１つ以上構築するように、挙動マネージャおよび／またはＵＩマネージャに命令することができる。リストには、ロボット機能（たとえば、一般ロボット機能、専用化済みロボット機能など）、ユーザ対話機能、リンク、ＲＣ要素（すなわち、１つ以上のロボット機能のインスタンス）、ＩＣ要素（すなわち、１つ以上のユーザ対話機能のインスタンス）、リンク要素（すなわち、１つ以上のリンクのインスタンス）、情報カーネル、協働挙動、などに関する１つ以上のリストが含まれ得る。協働フレームワークは、協働フレームワークに関連付けられたプレフィックスを持つ任意のｌａｕｎｃｈファイルについてのローカル・ファイル・システムを解析することにより、利用可能な機能または協働挙動のリストを構築することが可能であり、また挙動マニフェスト（たとえば、挙動マニフェスト４００）を含む任意のファイルを検索および読み込むことも可能である。
次に、ブロック６０４において、協働フレームワークは、入力を受信して、協働挙動をエンゲージまたは構成することができる。協働フレームワークは、新たな協働挙動の作成、またはエンゲージおよび／もしくは修正する既存の協働挙動の選択を行う命令を、１つ以上のＵＩ要素を介する、コマンド・シェルを介する、プログラムに従う、などして受信することが可能である。協働フレームワークが既存の協働挙動をエンゲージするための入力を受信する場合、協働フレームワークはブロック６１２に進むことができる。あるいは、分岐ブロック６１０において、協働フレームワークが新たな協働挙動の作成または既存の協働挙動の修正などの協働挙動の構成を行うための入力を受信する場合、協働フレームワークは、図９に関連して以下でより詳細に説明する処理９００を実行することができる。
ブロック６１２において、協働フレームワークは、少なくとも１人のユーザと対話し、作業を協働して実行するロボットを制御するための協働挙動を選択することができる。協働フレームワークは、協働挙動の機能を動的適応させることにより、ユーザとともに、特定の作業または特定の作業クラス内の作業を協働して実行するようにロボットを制御することができる。作業は、完了に向けて１つ以上の作業動作を要求することができ、協働フレームワークは、その作業動作を実行するために、１つ以上の協働挙動をエンゲージすることができる。ワーキング・メモリ内に協働挙動がロードされていなければ、ブロック６１４において、協働フレームワークは、機能に関する協働挙動の構成物を指定する協働挙動の仕様（たとえば、挙動マニフェスト４００）を取得および解析することができる。
次に、ブロック６１６において、協働フレームワークは、１つ以上の機能のインスタンスである、機能要素のセットを、協働挙動の機能構成物に基づいて提供することができる。機能要素のセットには、１つ以上のＲＣ要素および１つ以上のＩＣ要素が含まれる。さまざまな実施形態において、協働フレームワークは、以下でより詳細に説明する、図７に示した処理７００を実行することにより、機能要素のセットを提供することができる。次いで、ブロック６１８において、協働フレームワークは、１つ以上の機能間の１つ以上のリンクのインスタンスであるリンク要素のセットを提供し、リンク要素のセットを用いて機能要素のセットを接続することができる。さまざまな実施形態において、協働フレームワークは、以下でより詳細に説明する、図８に示した処理８００を実行することにより、リンク要素のセットの提供および機能要素のセットの接続を行うことができる。
ブロック６２０において、協働フレームワークは、ユーザとの対話および作業を実行するためのロボットの制御に向けて、機能要素のセットを実行することにより、協働挙動をエンゲージすることができる。協働フレームワークは、ＲＣ要素の実行と、１つ以上のＲＣ要素を使用し、ロボットに取り付けられた工具を用いて作業を完了するための１つ以上の作業動作を実行するためのロボットの１つ以上の機能の制御とを行うように、挙動マネージャに命令することができる。協働フレームワークは、１つ以上のＩＣ要素を実行してユーザがロボットおよび／または協働フレームワークと対話することを可能にする１つ以上のＵＩを提供するようにＵＩマネージャに命令することもできる。協働フレームワークは、あらゆる時間において、エンゲージされた協働挙動のエンゲージ解除および／または動作中の機能要素の停止が可能である。たとえば、エンゲージされた協働挙動および／または動作中のＲＣ要素のいずれかは、協働挙動のエンゲージ解除、または任意の動作中のＲＣ要素、作業または作業動作の完了、エラーまたはセーフティ・アラーム、などの停止を命じるユーザからの命令または入力に応答して、エンゲージ解除または停止させることができる。協働フレームワークは、個々の機能要素および／またはリンク要素を追加または削除して機能要素間のリンクを確立または破棄する際に、協働挙動をエンゲージ解除することもできる。
作業または作業動作の完了、あるいは協働挙動のエンゲージ解除に続き、分岐ブロック６３０において、協働フレームワークは、新たな作業または作業動作を実行するか否かを決定することができる。協働フレームワークが新たな作業を実行すると決定した場合、処理６００は分岐ブロック６４０に進むことができ、そこで協働フレームワークは、協働挙動および／または機能要素のセット内の１つ以上の機能要素を再使用するか否かを決定することができる。たとえば、協働フレームワークは、協働挙動が、ユーザとともに新たな作業を協働して実行するのに好適か否かを判断することができる。協働フレームワークが協働挙動および／または機能要素のセット内の一部もしくは全部の機能要素を再使用すると決定した場合、協働フレームワークは、処理６００がブロック６２０にジャンプする前に、新たな作業への移行に向けて協働挙動および／または機能要素のセットを準備することができる。たとえば、新たな作業の要件に基づいて、協働フレームワークは、ＲＣ要素のいずれかを一般化または再専用化し、機能要素のいずれかの間のリンクを再マッピングし、かつ／または機能およびリンク要素のいずれかを終了もしくはアンロードすることにより、移行に向けた機能要素のセットを準備することができる。
分岐ブロック６４０で協働フレームワークが協働挙動を再使用しないと決定した場合、処理６００はブロック６４２に進むことができる。ブロック６４２において、協働フレームワークは、処理６００が分岐ブロック６１０へとジャンプして新たな作業の実行のために別の協働挙動をエンゲージまたは構成する前に、協働挙動のエンゲージ解除およびアンロード、ならびに／または機能およびリンク要素の一部もしくは全部を終了およびアンロードすることができる。協働フレームワークは、協働挙動に関してインスタンス化された機能およびリンク要素などを終了およびアンロードすることにより、協働挙動をアンロードすることができる。ただし、新たな作業に関する続く協働挙動が１つ以上の機能および／またはリンク要素を利用可能である場合、協働フレームワークは、ワーキング・メモリに機能および／またはリンク要素の一部もしくは全部を保持すること、ならびにＲＣ要素の一部もしくは全部を再専用化することが可能である。一方、協働フレームワークが後続の協働挙動が再使用可能な機能やリンク要素を一切発見しなければ、協働フレームワークは、分岐ブロック６１０にジャンプして別の協働挙動をエンゲージまたは構成する前に、協働挙動をアンロードし、協働挙動に関連付けられたすべての機能およびリンク要素を終了およびアンロードすることができる。
あるいは、分岐ブロック６３０で協働フレームワークが別の作業を実行しないと決定した場合、ブロック６５２において、協働フレームワークは、協働挙動のエンゲージ解除およびアンロード、協働挙動に関連付けられたすべての機能およびリンク要素の終了およびアンロード、挙動マネージャおよびＵＩマネージャの終了およびアンロード、ならびに／または協働フレームワークの終了およびアンロードを行うことができる。最後に、ブロック６５２の後、処理６００は終了する。
図７および図８は、本開示の実施形態による、人間－機械協働挙動に基づく再使用可能な機能表現の提供および動的適応に向けた、一般化可能フレームワークによって実行される、処理７００および処理８００の流れ図である。
図７を参照する。協働フレームワークは、（図６に示した）ブロック６１４における現在の協働挙動の機能構成物の取得および解析を行いながら、またはその後に、処理７００を実行することができる。処理７００において、協働フレームワークは、機能構成物によって指定された１つ以上のロボット機能に基づいてＲＣ要素を提供するために、挙動マネージャをコールすることができる。協働フレームワークは、機能構成物によって指定され、かつ／または機能構成物内の個々のロボット機能によって要求された、１つ以上のユーザ対話機能に基づいてＩＣ要素をロードおよび実行するために、ＵＩマネージャの少なくとも１つのインスタンスをコールすることもできる。協働フレームワークは、各ＲＣ要素および各ＩＣ要素を、独立したインスタンスまたは処理として提供することができる。
ブロック７０２において、協働フレームワークは、機能構成物を解析し、機能構成物内で指定された機能を選択することができる。協働フレームワークは、機能構成物内で指定されたユーザ対話機能によって満たされていない少なくとも１つの抽象インタフェース要件を持つ要件の高いロボット機能があればそれを識別することもでき、挙動マネージャは、共有されたメモリ・スペース上で追加のＵＩ要件をブロードキャストすることができる。それに応じて、ＵＩマネージャは、追加のＵＩ要件を満たすために、少なくとも１つのユーザ対話機能を選択することができる。ＵＩマネージャは、要件の高いロボット機能に対して互換関数を実行することにより、適切なユーザ対話機能を選択することができる。次いで、ブロック７０４において、協働フレームワークは、選択された機能のタイプを判断することができる（たとえば、ロボット機能であるか、ユーザ対話機能であるか）。
分岐ブロック７１０において、選択された機能がロボット機能であると判断されれば、処理７００はブロック７１２に進むことができ、そこで協働フレームワークは、ロボット機能のインスタンスをＲＣ要素として提供することができる。協働フレームワークは、協働挙動を使用して実行されることになる作業動作に関連付けられた１つ以上の作業動作タイプを基に作業動作を実行するのに適切な１つ以上の一般ロボット機能に基づいてＲＣ要素を提供することができる。たとえば、協働フレームワークは、ロボット機能に関連付けられたｌａｕｎｃｈファイルをコールしＲＣ要素を作成するように挙動マネージャに命令することにより、ＲＣ要素を提供することができる。一般ロボット機能の例としては、モーション制約、モーション即時再生、軌跡生成、などが挙げられる。たとえば、先行する作業を実行するために、および／または予めロードされた協働挙動によって要求されたために、ロボット機能のインスタンスが利用可能であり既にメモリにロードされているのであれば、協働フレームワークは、新たなＲＣ要素を作成する代わりに、既にロードされているＲＣ要素を単純に適応させることができる。
次に、ブロック７１４において、協働フレームワークは、ＲＣ要素をインスタンス化または専用化するのに用いる情報カーネルを少なくとも１つ提供することができる。情報カーネルは、ＲＣ要素によって要求される１つ以上の作業関連パラメータのセットをカプセル化し、情報カーネルにカプセル化可能なパラメータのタイプには、たとえば、工具挙動制御、ＴＭＰ、知覚テンプレート、などが含まれる。協働フレームワークは、機能構成物および／またはＲＣ要素によって要求されるパラメータのセットに基づいて情報カーネルを識別することができる。次いで、ブロック７１６において、協働フレームワークは、情報カーネルを用いて、ＲＣ要素を専用化することができる。ＲＣ要素が別の情報カーネルで既に専用化されている場合、協働フレームワークは、たとえば、ＲＣ要素を一般化し（たとえば、ＲＣ要素を別の情報カーネルから切り離し）、その後で情報カーネルを用いてＲＣ要素を専用化することにより、ＲＣ要素を再専用化することができる。ブロック７１６の後、処理７００は分岐ブロック７２０に進むことができる。
あるいは、分岐ブロック７１０において、選択された機能がユーザ対話機能であると判断されれば、処理７００はブロック７１８に進むことができ、そこで協働フレームワークは、ユーザ対話機能のインスタンスをＩＣ要素として提供することができる。たとえば、協働フレームワークは、ユーザ対話機能に関連付けられたｌａｕｎｃｈファイルをコールしＩＣ要素を作成するようにＵＩマネージャに命令することにより、ＩＣ要素を提供することができる。ＵＩマネージャは、ＩＣ要素がユーザとの対話に用いることになる、ユーザ・インタフェース（たとえば、ディスプレイ、ユーザ入力デバイス、など）の特性を判断し、次いで、それらの特性に基づいてＩＣ要素をカスタマイズすることもできる。たとえば、先行する作業を実行するために、および／または予めロードされた協働挙動によって要求されたために、ユーザ対話機能のインスタンスが利用可能であり既にメモリにロードされているのであれば、協働フレームワークは、新たなＩＣ要素を作成する代わりに、既にロードされているＩＣ要素を単純に適応させることができる。ブロック７１８の後、処理７００は分岐ブロック７２０に進むことができる。
分岐ブロック７２０において、協働フレームワークは、機能構成物および／またはいずれかの要件の高いロボット機能の抽象インタフェース要件に基づいて、機能のインスタンスをさらに提供するか否かを判断することができる。提供する場合、処理７００はブロック７０２にジャンプすることができる。あるいは、提供しない場合、協働フレームワークは、処理７００を終了し、（図６に示した）ブロック６１８にジャンプすることができる。
図８を参照する。協働フレームワークは、機能構成物内で指定されたロボット機能に関連付けられたＲＣ要素を提供した後に、処理８００を実行することができる。処理８００において、協働フレームワークは、協働挙動の機能構成物によって指定されたリンクおよびマッピングに基づいてリンク要素を提供するために挙動マネージャをコールすることができ、また各リンク要素を独立したインスタンスまたは処理として提供することができる。
ブロック８０２において、協働フレームワークは、ロボット機能間のリンクやロボット機能とユーザ対話機能の間のマッピングなど、機能間の１つ以上のリンクまたは接続について、機能構成物を解析することができる。次に、ブロック８０４において、協働フレームワークは、リンクまたはマッピングのインスタンスを、リンク要素として提供することができる。その後、ブロック８０６において、協働フレームワークは、そのリンク要素を使用して、関連する機能要素を接続することができる。たとえば、リンクは、機能構成物内で指定されたリンクまたはマッピングに基づいて、機能要素のペア間に形成され得る。機能要素のリンクされたペアには、配信者機能要素および購読者機能要素が含まれる。協働フレームワークは、トピックの形態をとるリンクされたペア間のリンクを形成することができ、このリンク内で配信者機能要素はトピックを配信し、購読者機能要素はトピックを購読する。
最後に、分岐ブロック８１０において、協働フレームワークは、機能構成物内に残っている任意のリンクおよびマッピングに基づいて、リンク要素をさらに提供するか否かを判断することができる。提供する場合、処理８００はブロック８０２にジャンプすることができる。あるいは、提供しない場合、協働フレームワークは、処理８００を終了し、（図６に示した）ブロック６２０にジャンプすることができる。
図９は、本開示の実施形態による、人間－機械協働挙動を構成するための例示的方法を示す流れ図である。協働フレームワークは、（図６に示した）ブロック６１０において協働挙動を構成するという入力を受信した後、処理９００に実行することができる。ブロック９０２において、協働フレームワークは、コンポーザを提供することができ、これはたとえば、挙動マネージャおよび／またはＵＩマネージャにコンポーザを提供するよう命令することによって行われる。
ブロック９０４において、協働フレームワークは、協働挙動に関する機能構成物を提供するようにコンポーザに命令することができる。協働挙動が新規であるか、機能構成物を含まない場合、コンポーザは、機能構成物を作成することができる。あるいは、協働挙動が機能構成物を含む場合、コンポーザは、機能構成物をロードすることができる。次に、ブロック９０６において、コンポーザは、利用可能なロボット機能、ユーザ対話機能、情報カーネル、合成作用素、などを含む挙動構成要素のリストを提供することができる。コンポーザは、任意の構成ファイルおよび／または協働フレームワークに関連付けられたプレフィックスを有するｌａｕｎｃｈファイルについてローカル・ファイル・システムを解析することにより、利用可能な挙動構成要素のリストを構築することができる。
ブロック９０８において、コンポーザは、たとえば１つ以上のＵＩ要素またはコマンド・シェルを介する、プログラムに従う、などにより、ユーザから、機能構成物内の挙動構成要素を追加、修正、または削除するための入力を受信することができる。次いで、分岐ブロック９２０において、コンポーザは、１つ以上の挙動構成要素を追加または修正／削除するかどうかを判断することができる。
分岐ブロック９２０において、ユーザは１つ以上の挙動構成要素を機能構成物に追加することを望んでいるとコンポーザが判断した場合、処理９００は、ブロック９２２に進むことができ、そこでコンポーザは機能を選択することができる。コンポーザは、機能やコマンド・ラインに関するリストからのユーザの選択に応答して、機能を選択することができる。次に、ブロック９２４において、コンポーザは、選択された機能がロボット機能か否かを判断することができる。ロボット機能であれば、コンポーザは、そのロボット機能をインスタンス化または専用化するのに用いる情報カーネルを選択するようにユーザを促すことができる。次いで、ブロック９２６において、コンポーザは、選択された機能に関連付けられた合成作用素、および／または選択された機能を構成するのに用いる演算数（たとえば、別の機能）を選択することができる。コンポーザは、選択された機能、およびオプションで選択された作用素および／または機能構成物内の演算数を追加することができる。ブロック９２６の後、処理９００は分岐ブロック９４０に進むことができる。
あるいは、分岐ブロック９２０において、ユーザは機能構成物に由来する１つ以上の挙動構成要素を修正または削除することを望んでいるとコンポーザが判断した場合、処理９００は、ブロック９３２に進むことができ、そこでコンポーザは、ユーザに機能構成物を提供し、機能構成物内の少なくとも１つの挙動構成要素を選択するためのユーザ入力を受信することができる。次いで、ブロック９３４において、コンポーザは、選択された挙動構成要素の修正、または選択された挙動構成要素の機能構成物からの削除を行うことができる。ブロック９３４の後、処理９００は分岐ブロック９４０に進むことができる。
分岐ブロック９４０において、コンポーザは、機能構成物の構成を継続するか否かを判断することができる。コンポーザは、その判断をユーザ入力に基づいて行うことができる。コンポーザは、互換関数に従い、機能構成物内のロボット機能のすべてのユーザ対話要件が、機能構成物内のユーザ対話機能によって満たされているか否かを判断することもできる。コンポーザが継続することを決定した場合、処理９００はブロック９０６にジャンプすることができる。あるいは、コンポーザが継続しないことを決定した場合、処理９００はブロック９４２に進むことができる。
ブロック９４２において、コンポーザは、機能構成物内の機能間のリンクおよびマッピングを１つ以上提供することができる。コンポーザは、機能構成物を解析し、機能構成物内の１つ以上の合成作用素、ロボット機能の抽象インタフェース要件、ユーザ入力、などに基づいてリンクおよびマッピングを提供または導出することができる。最後に、ブロック９４４において、コンポーザは、協働挙動に関連付けられた挙動マニフェスト内の機能構成物を記憶することができる。図４にその一例を示す挙動マニフェストは、協働挙動に関する、１つ以上のロボット機能、ユーザ対話機能、およびリンク／マッピングを、タグへとカプセル化することが可能であり、このタグのもとで、協働挙動のために要求される機能およびリンク／マッピングがリストされる。最後に、ブロック９４４の後、協働フレームワークは、処理９００を終了し、（図６に示した）ブロック６１０にジャンプすることができる。
（例示的処理）
協働フレームワークは、ユーザと協働してサンダ作業を実行するために、協働挙動を作成またはロードすることができる。協働挙動を作成またはロードし、協働挙動内で指定された少なくとも１つの一般ロボット機能をロードした後、協働フレームワークは、サンダがロボットに取り付けられているということを識別し、サンダに関連付けられたパラメータをカプセル化する少なくとも１つの情報カーネルを用いて一般ロボット機能をインスタンス化することができる。次いで、協働フレームワークは、既にロードされたのでなければ、インスタンス化されたロボット機能のＵＩ要件に基づいて工具挙動対話機能をロードし、サンダに関連付けられた工具挙動制約をユーザに選択および／または適用させる工具挙動ＵＩ要素を提供することができる。たとえば、工具挙動対話機能は、協働挙動によって要求される機能でなくてもよい。次いで、協働フレームワークは、ユーザが、工具挙動制約内で指定された１つ以上の挙動制約を選択および実施した後、実施した挙動制約に基づいてロボットのモーションを制約できるようにする、（図５に示した）工具挙動ＵＩ要素５１０を提供するために、工具挙動対話機能を実行することができる。たとえば、協働フレームワークは、取り付けられたサンダのモーションがサンダ・パッドの平面範囲内にのみ制約されるように、挙動制約を実施または適用することができる。
協働フレームワークは、必要であれば、ユーザに知覚テンプレートを選択および／または適用させる加工物対話機能を同様に識別およびロードし、次いで、１つ以上の加工物ＵＩ要素５２０において提供するために加工物対話機能を実行することができる。加工物ＵＩ要素５２０には、検出した加工物表面の３－Ｄレンダリング、および加工物上の１つ以上の対象位置をユーザが選択するための入力点群が含まれ得る。加工物ＵＩ要素５２０は、さらに、遠隔操作用に「選択された表面に位置合わせする」という知覚テンプレートをユーザがトグルできるようにすることも可能であり、これにより、取り付けられたサンダの配向が選択された平面または表面と垂直になるように制約することができる。協働フレームワークは、工具挙動および知覚テンプレートをユーザに選択させる加工物ＵＩ要素５２０を、ユーザがロボットをアドミッタンス・ガイドしながら協働フレームワークが実施可能な、より大きな工具制約遠隔操作挙動へと組み込むことができる。
協働フレームワークは、サンダ作業を実行するための協働挙動によって要求されるＴＭＰに関連付けられた１つ以上のユーザ実演モーションを記録または学習する、ＴＭＰ記録要素５３０を提供することができる。協働フレームワークは、加工物の平面または表面上の点を選択して、選択した点において保存されたＴＭＰをインスタンス化するために、ＴＭＰ実装ＵＩ要素（図示なし）を作成することもできる。平面知覚テンプレートを指定する、３－Ｄビューにおける所望の加工物平面に関するユーザ選択を受信した後、協働フレームワークは、当該平面領域の垂直トップダウン・ビューを示すために、現在の２－Ｄカラー画像を歪曲することができる。その後、ユーザは、画像内の点のセットを選択することができ、ロボットは、ＵＩ要素５４０を介して指定された回数だけ各点においてＴＭＰ内でカプセル化されたモーションを自律的に実行するために協働挙動をエンゲージすることができる。このことは、ＴＭＰ実装と呼ばれるより大きな挙動において利用できる。
図１０は、本開示の実施形態に即した、コンピュータ・システム１０００を示す図である。一般に、人間－機械協働システムの実施形態（たとえば、協働フレームワーク３２０および分散型協働フレームワーク３５０）は、１つ以上のパーソナル・コンピュータ、サーバ、ワークステーション、組込式システム、多機能デバイス他、これらの組み合わせなど、さまざまなコンピュータ・システムにおいて実装可能である。協働システムまたはモジュールの特定の実施形態は、その中にコンピュータ・プログラムとして組み込まれる。コンピュータ・プログラムは、アクティブおよび非アクティブという両方のさまざまな形態で存在してよい。たとえば、コンピュータ・プログラムは、ソースコード内のプログラム命令、オブジェクト・コード、実行可能コードもしくは他のフォーマット、ファーム・プログラム、またはハードウェア記述言語（「ＨＤＬ」）ファイルを含む、ソフトウェア・プログラムとして存在することができる。上記のいずれもが、圧縮または非圧縮された形態で、ストレージ・デバイスおよび信号を含む、コンピュータ可読媒体上で具体化され得る。ただし、説明のために、システム１０００は、当業者に良く知られた汎用コンピュータとして示される。システム１０００に含まれる可能性のある構成要素および周辺機器の例について以下で説明する。
図示の通り、システム１０００には、少なくとも１つのプロセッサ１００２、キーボード１０１７、ポインティング・デバイス１０１８（たとえば、マウス、３－Ｄポインティング・デバイス、タッチパッド、など）、ディスプレイ１０１６、メイン・メモリ１０１０、入出力コントローラ１０１５、およびストレージ・デバイス１０１４が含まれ得る。ストレージ・デバイス１０１４には、たとえば、ＲＡＭ、ＲＯＭ、フラッシュ・メモリ、ＥＥＰＲＯＭ、ＣＤ－ＲＯＭもしくは他の光学ディスク・ストレージ、磁気ディスク・ストレージもしくは他の磁気ストレージ・デバイス、またはその他、命令もしくはデータ構造の形をとる所望のプログラム・コードを搬送もしくは記憶するのに使用可能でありコンピュータがアクセス可能な任意の媒体が含まれ得る。プリンタ・ドライバのコンピュータ・プログラム実施形態のコピーが、たとえば、ストレージ・デバイス１０１４に記憶されてよい。システム１０００は、プリンタ（図示なし）など、追加の入出力デバイスを備えてもよい。システム１０００のさまざまな構成要素は、システム・バス１０１２または類似の構造によって通信する。加えて、システム１０００には、動作中はメモリ１０１０に常駐するオペレーティング・システム（「ＯＳ」）１０２０が含まれ得る。当業者であれば、システム１０００には、複数のプロセッサ１００２が含まれ得ることが理解されよう。たとえば、システム１０００には、同一プロセッサの複数のコピーが含まれ得る。あるいは、システム１０００には、さまざまなタイプのプロセッサの異種混合が含まれ得る。たとえば、システム１０００は、あるプロセッサを一次プロセッサとして使用し、他のプロセッサをコプロセッサとして使用することができる。別の例として、システム１０００には、１つ以上のマルチコア・プロセッサおよび１つ以上のシングルコア・プロセッサが含まれ得る。したがって、システム１０００には、プロセッサ（たとえばプロセッサ１００２）のセットを通じて任意の数の実行コアが含まれ得る。キーボード１０１７、ポインティング・デバイス１０１８、およびディスプレイ１０１６について、これらの構成要素は、当業者によく知られた構成要素を用いて実装されてよい。当業者であれば、システム１０００には、他の構成要素および周辺機器が含まれ得ることも理解されよう。
メイン・メモリ１０１０は、システム１０００の一次ストレージ・エリアとして機能し、バーコード印刷システムにおけるプリンタ・ドライブなど、プロセッサ１００２上で動作するアプリケーションにより能動的に使用されるデータを保持する。当業者であれば、アプリケーションとは各々が実行中に特定の作業のセットをシステム１０００に実行させるように命令を下すためのコンピュータ命令のセットを含むソフトウェア・プログラムであり、「アプリケーション」という用語は、本教示の実施形態による、アプリケーション・ソフトウェア、アプリケーション・プログラム、デバイス・ドライバ、および／またはプログラムと区別なく使用され得るということを理解されよう。メモリ１０１０は、ランダム・アクセス・メモリ、または以下で記述する、当業者にはよく知られた、他の形態のメモリとして実装することができる。
ＯＳ１０２０は、システム１０００におけるハードウェアの直接制御および管理ならびにシステム操作を担うルーチンおよび命令の一体型集合である。加えて、ＯＳ１０２０は、アプリケーション・ソフトウェアおよびデバイス・ドライバを実行する基礎を提供する。たとえば、ＯＳ１０２０は、リソース割り当て、スケジューリング、入出力制御、およびメモリ管理などのサービスを提供することができる。ＯＳ１０２０は、主にソフトウェアとなり得るが、部分的または完全なハードウェア実装およびファームウェアを含むこともできる。本教示の原理と整合性のある、よく知られたオペレーティング・システムの例としては、ＲＯＢＯＴ ＯＰＥＲＡＴＩＮＧ ＳＹＳＴＥＭ、ＬＩＮＵＸ（登録商標）、ＵＮＩＸ（登録商標）、ＯＲＡＣＬＥ ＳＯＬＡＲＩＳ、ＭＩＣＲＯＳＯＦＴ ＷＩＮＤＯＷＳ（登録商標）、ＭＡＣ ＯＳ（登録商標）、ＯＰＥＮ ＶＭＳ（登録商標）、およびＩＢＭ ＡＩＸが挙げられる。
以上の記述は例示であり、当業者であれば、構成および実装の変形形態が思い浮かぶ可能性もある。たとえば、本明細書で開示した実施形態に関連して記述された、さまざまな例示的ロジック、ロジック・ブロック、モジュール、および回路は、汎用プロセッサ（たとえば、プロセッサ１００２）、特定用途向け集積回路、フィールドプログラマブルゲートアレイもしくは他のプログラマブル・ロジック・デバイス、ディスクリート・ゲートもしくはトランジスタ・ロジック、ディスクリート・ハードウェア部品、または本明細書に記述された機能を実行するように設計された、これらの任意の組み合わせを用いて実装または実行され得る。汎用プロセッサは、マイクロプロセッサとすることができるが、代わりにそのプロセッサを、任意の従来型プロセッサ、コントローラ、マイクロコントローラ、またはステート・マシンとしてもよい。プロセッサは、たとえば、１つのマイクロプロセッサ、複数のマイクロプロセッサ、または他のこうした構成など、コンピューティング・デバイスの組み合わせとして実装されてもよい。
１つまたは複数の例示的実施形態において、記述した機能は、ハードウェア、ソフトウェア、ファームウェア、またはそれらの任意の組み合わせにおいて実装され得る。ソフトウェア実装に関して、本明細書に記述した技法は、本明細書に記述した機能を実行するモジュール（たとえば、手続き、機能、サブプログラム、プログラム、ルーチン、サブルーチン、モジュール、ソフトウェア・パッケージ、クラス、など）を用いて実装され得る。モジュールは、情報、データ、変数、パラメータ、またはメモリ内容を受け渡しおよび／または受信することにより、別のモジュールまたはハードウェア回路と連結可能である。情報、変数、パラメータ、データ、などは、メモリ共有、メッセージ受け渡し、トークン受け渡し、ネットワーク送信、などを含む好適な任意の手段を用いて受け渡し、転送、または送信され得る。ソフトウェア・コードは、メモリ・ユニットに記憶可能であり、プロセッサによって実行され得る。メモリ・ユニットは、プロセッサ内、またはプロセッサの外部で実装可能であり、プロセッサ外部で実装される場合、メモリ・ユニットは当分野で知られているさまざまな手段によってプロセッサに通信可能に連結され得る。
ソフトウェアで実装された場合、機能は、１つ以上の命令またはコードとして、コンピュータ可読媒体に記憶され、これを介して送信され得る。コンピュータ可読媒体には、ある場所から別の場所へのコンピュータ・プログラムの転送を容易にする任意の媒体を含む、有形の非一時的コンピュータ記憶媒体および通信媒体の両方が含まれる。記憶媒体は、コンピュータがアクセス可能な、任意の有形の非一時的媒体とすることができる。限定するものではないが、たとえば、そのような有形の非一時的コンピュータ可読媒体には、ＲＡＭ、ＲＯＭ、フラッシュ・メモリ、ＥＥＰＲＯＭ、ＣＤ－ＲＯＭもしくは他の光学ディスク・ストレージ、磁気ディスク・ストレージもしくは他の磁気ストレージ・デバイス、またはその他、命令もしくはデータ構造の形をとる所望のプログラム・コードを搬送もしくは記憶するのに使用可能でありコンピュータがアクセス可能な任意の媒体が含まれ得る。本明細書で用いるディスク（ｄｉｓｋおよびｄｉｓｃ）には、ＣＤ、レーザ・ディスク、光学ディスク、ＤＶＤ、フロッピー・ディスク、およびＢｌｕ－ｒａｙディスクが含まれ、ディスク（ｄｉｓｋ）は通常磁気的にデータを複製するものであり、ディスク（ｄｉｓｃ）はレーザを用いて光学的にデータを複製するものである。また、あらゆる接続も、コンピュータ可読媒体と呼ばれてよい。たとえば、ウェブサイト、サーバ、または他のリモート・ソースから、同軸ケーブル、ファイバ光ケーブル、撚り対線、デジタル加入者線（ＤＳＬ）、または赤外線、無線、およびマイクロ波などの無線技術を使用して、ソフトウェアが送信される場合、同軸ケーブル、ファイバ光ケーブル、撚り対線、ＤＳＬ、または赤外線、無線、およびマイクロ波などの無線技術も、媒体という定義に包含される。
上に挙げたものの組み合わせも、コンピュータ可読媒体の範囲に含まれるべきものである。
一実施形態において、単数または一体型として記述されたリソースは、複数または分散型とすることも可能であり、複数または分散型として記述されたリソースは、その実施にあたり統合されてもよい。したがって、本教示の範囲は、続く特許請求の範囲によってのみ限定されることを意図している。本発明について、特定の実施形態を基に説明してきたが、当業者であれば、多数の修正形態が考えられ得ることは理解されよう。たとえば、プロキシ・サーバは、本明細書で言及されない追加の機能を備えてよい。また、本開示の実施形態は、専用の構成要素、ならびに／あるいはプログラマブル・プロセッサおよび／または他のプログラマブル・デバイスの任意の組み合わせを用いて実現可能である。上述の実施形態は特定のハードウェアおよびソフトウェア・コンポーネントを参照することができるが、当業者であれば、ハードウェアおよびソフトウェア・コンポーネントの異なる組み合わせも使用されてよく、ハードウェア内で実装されるものとして説明した個々の操作も、ソフトウェア内で実装可能であり、その逆も同様であるということは理解されよう。
Claims (19)
Hide Dependent 
一般化可能なユーザ－ロボット協働を可能にするためのコンピュータ実施方法であって、
ロボット機能および１つ以上のユーザ対話機能の構成物を提供するステップであって、前記ロボット機能が、ある作業動作タイプを実行するために、ロボットの少なくとも１つの機能をモデリングする、提供するステップと、
前記ロボット機能を、情報カーネルを用いて専用化して、専用化済みロボット機能を提供するステップであって、前記情報カーネルが、前記作業動作タイプに関連付けられた作業関連パラメータのセットをカプセル化する、提供するステップと、
前記専用化済みロボット機能のインスタンスを、前記作業関連パラメータのセットに基づいて、前記ロボットの前記少なくとも１つの機能を制御する、ロボット機能要素として提供するステップと、
前記１つ以上のユーザ対話機能の１つ以上のインスタンスを、１つ以上のユーザ対話機能要素として提供するステップと、
前記１つ以上のユーザ対話機能要素を介してユーザ入力を受信するため、前記ロボット機能要素を実行するステップと、
前記ユーザ入力および前記作業関連パラメータのセットに基づいて、前記ユーザ入力と協働して前記作業動作タイプの少なくとも１つの作業動作を実行するために、前記ロボットの前記少なくとも１つの機能を制御するステップと
を含むコンピュータ実施方法。
前記１つ以上のユーザ対話機能要素を介して、１つ以上のユーザ・インタフェース（ＵＩ）を提供するステップと、
前記１つ以上のＵＩを介して、前記ユーザ入力を受信するステップと
をさらに含む請求項１に記載のコンピュータ実施方法。
前記１つ以上のユーザ対話機能が、アドミッタンス制御対話機能を含み、前記コンピュータ実施方法が、
前記アドミッタンス制御対話機能のインスタンスを、アドミッタンス制御対話機能要素として提供するステップと、
前記アドミッタンス制御対話機能要素を介して、前記ロボットのユーザ操作を、前記ユーザ入力として受信するステップと
をさらに含む請求項１に記載のコンピュータ実施方法。
前記アドミッタンス制御対話機能要素に基づいて、前記ロボットの前記ユーザ操作をユーザ実演モーションとして、受信する、アドミッタンス制御インストラクタ・インタフェースを提供するステップと、
前記ロボットの開始ポーズを決定するステップと、
前記ユーザ実演モーションの軌跡データを取得するステップと、
工具根本動作（ＴＭＰ）を形成するため、前記ロボットの前記開始ポーズに基づいて、前記軌跡データを一般化するステップと、
前記ＴＭＰを記憶するステップと
をさらに含む請求項３に記載のコンピュータ実施方法。
前記作業動作タイプが、モーション制約を含み、前記情報カーネルの前記作業関連パラメータのセットが、工具タイプに関連付けられた工具パラメータのセットを含み、前記ロボット機能要素を実行するステップが、
前記工具タイプの工具が前記ロボットに取り付けられていることを検知するステップと、
前記工具タイプに関連付けられた前記工具パラメータのセットに基づいて、前記ユーザ入力に応答して前記少なくとも１つの作業動作を実行する際に前記ロボットの１つ以上のモーションを制約することによって、前記モーション制約を実施するステップと
をさらに含む請求項１に記載のコンピュータ実施方法。
前記ロボットの前記１つ以上のモーションを制約するステップが、
前記ロボットの開始ポーズを取得するステップと、
前記ロボットの前記開始ポーズ、および前記工具タイプに関連付けられた前記工具パラメータのセットに基づいて、前記ロボットの前記１つ以上のモーションを制約するステップと
をさらに含む請求項５に記載のコンピュータ実施方法。
前記工具パラメータのセットが、工具幾何形状および工具挙動制約を含み、前記コンピュータ実施方法が、
前記工具幾何形状および前記工具挙動制約に基づいて、前記ロボットの最大稼働空間のサブセットである、前記ロボットの工具制約稼働空間を生成するステップと、
前記ロボットの前記１つ以上のモーションを制約することによって、前記ロボットを前記工具制約稼働空間に制約するステップと
をさらに含む請求項５に記載のコンピュータ実施方法。
前記情報カーネルの前記作業関連パラメータのセットが、知覚テンプレートを含み、前記ロボットの前記１つ以上のモーションを制約するステップが、
少なくとも１つの対象加工物の加工物特性のセットを取得するステップと、
前記ロボットの初期ポーズ、および前記加工物特性のセットに基づいて、前記ロボットの前記１つ以上のモーションを制約するステップと
をさらに含む請求項５に記載のコンピュータ実施方法。
前記作業動作タイプが、モーション即時再生を含み、前記情報カーネルの前記作業関連パラメータのセットが、ＴＭＰを含み、前記ロボット機能要素を実行するステップが、
前記１つ以上のユーザ対話機能を介して、前記ロボットの開始ポーズを決定するステップと、
前記ロボットの前記開始ポーズ、および前記ＴＭＰの工具モーション軌跡に基づいて、前記少なくとも１つの作業動作を実行する際の前記ロボットの１つ以上のモーションを制御するステップと
をさらに含む請求項１に記載のコンピュータ実施方法。
前記情報カーネルの前記作業関連パラメータのセットが、知覚テンプレートを含み、前記ロボットの前記１つ以上のモーションを制御するステップが、
前記ロボットの稼働空間内の、少なくとも１つの加工物の加工物特性のセットを取得するステップと、
前記加工物特性のセットに基づいて、前記少なくとも１つの作業動作を実行する際の前記ロボットの前記１つ以上のモーションを基礎訓練するステップと
をさらに含む請求項９に記載のコンピュータ実施方法。
前記ロボット機能および前記１つ以上のユーザ対話機能の前記構成物が、前記ロボット機能および前記１つ以上のユーザ対話機能の間の１つ以上のリンクを含み、前記コンピュータ実施方法が、
前記１つ以上のリンクの１つ以上のインスタンスを、前記ロボット機能要素を前記１つ以上のユーザ対話機能要素に接続する、１つ以上のリンク要素として提供するステップ
をさらに含む請求項１に記載のコンピュータ実施方法。
前記１つ以上のリンクの前記１つ以上のインスタンスを提供するステップが、
前記ロボット機能要素のＵＩ要件を、前記ロボット機能要素のインタフェースに基づいて導出するステップであって、前記インタフェースが入力インタフェースまたは出力インタフェースの少なくとも１つを含む、導出するステップと、
前記ＵＩ要件に基づいて、少なくとも１つのリンクの少なくとも１つのインスタンスを、ロボット要素を前記少なくとも１つのユーザ対話機能要素に接続する、少なくとも１つのリンク要素として提供するステップと
をさらに含む請求項１１に記載のコンピュータ実施方法。
前記ロボット機能および前記１つ以上のユーザ対話機能の前記構成物を含む、協働挙動を提供するステップと、
複数のロボット機能を、前記協働挙動のロボット機能構成物要件に基づいて選択するステップと、
前記複数のロボット機能を、前記ロボット機能として、ロボット機能の構成物へと構成するステップと、
ロボット機能の前記構成物を、前記協働挙動と関連付けるステップと
をさらに含む請求項１に記載のコンピュータ実施方法。
前記複数のロボット機能を構成するステップが、
前記複数のロボット機能のうちの２つのロボット機能を、並列合成作用素または直列合成作用素の少なくとも１つを用いて構成するステップと
をさらに含む請求項１３に記載のコンピュータ実施方法。
ロボット機能の前記構成物の複数のＵＩ要件を、互換関数をロボット機能の前記構成物に実行することによって導出するステップと、
前記複数のＵＩ要件を満たす少なくとも１つのユーザ対話機能を決定するステップと、
前記複数のＵＩ要件に基づいて、ロボット機能の前記構成物および前記少なくとも１つのユーザ対話機能の間のマッピングを生成するステップと
をさらに含む請求項１３に記載のコンピュータ実施方法。
複数のロボット機能要素を提供するステップであって、前記複数のロボット機能要素が、前記複数のロボット機能のインスタンスである、提供するステップと、
複数のユーザ対話機能要素を提供するステップであって、前記複数のユーザ対話機能要素が、前記１つ以上のユーザ対話機能および前記少なくとも１つのユーザ対話機能のインスタンスである、提供するステップと、
前記複数のロボット機能要素のロボット機能要素のペア間のリンクを、前記協働挙動のリンク要件に基づいて形成するステップであって、前記ロボット機能要素のペアが、配信者ロボット機能要素および購読者ロボット機能要素を含む、形成するステップと
をさらに含む請求項１３に記載のコンピュータ実施方法。
前記複数のロボット機能要素、前記複数のユーザ対話機能要素、および前記リンクを、独立した処理において、それぞれ提供するステップ
をさらに含む請求項１６に記載のコンピュータ実施方法。
一般化可能なユーザ－ロボット協働を可能にするためのシステムであって、
命令を記憶する、非一時的メモリと、
前記命令を実行して、前記システムに、
ロボット機能および１つ以上のユーザ対話機能の構成物を提供するステップであって、前記ロボット機能が、ある作業動作タイプを実行するために、ロボットの少なくとも１つの機能をモデリングする、提供するステップと、
前記ロボット機能を、情報カーネルを用いて専用化して、専用化済みロボット機能を提供するステップであって、前記情報カーネルが、前記作業動作タイプに関連付けられた作業関連パラメータのセットをカプセル化する、提供するステップと、
前記専用化済みロボット機能のインスタンスを、前記作業関連パラメータのセットに基づいて、前記ロボットの前記少なくとも１つの機能を制御する、ロボット機能要素として提供するステップと、
前記１つ以上のユーザ対話機能の１つ以上のインスタンスを、１つ以上のユーザ対話機能要素として提供するステップと、
前記１つ以上のユーザ対話機能要素を介してユーザ入力を受信するため、前記ロボット機能要素を実行するステップと、
前記ユーザ入力および前記作業関連パラメータのセットに基づいて、前記ユーザ入力と協働して前記作業動作タイプの少なくとも１つの作業動作を実行するために、前記ロボットの前記少なくとも１つの機能を制御するステップと
を含む方法を実行させる、プロセッサと
を含むシステム。
プロセッサ上で実行されたとき、
ロボット機能および１つ以上のユーザ対話機能の構成物を提供するステップであって、前記ロボット機能が、ある作業動作タイプを実行するために、ロボットの少なくとも１つの機能をモデリングする、提供するステップと、
前記ロボット機能を、情報カーネルを用いて専用化して、専用化済みロボット機能を提供するステップであって、前記情報カーネルが、前記作業動作タイプに関連付けられた作業関連パラメータのセットをカプセル化する、提供するステップと、
前記専用化済みロボット機能のインスタンスを、前記作業関連パラメータのセットに基づいて、前記ロボットの前記少なくとも１つの機能を制御する、ロボット機能要素として提供するステップと、
前記１つ以上のユーザ対話機能の１つ以上のインスタンスを、１つ以上のユーザ対話機能要素として提供するステップと、
前記１つ以上のユーザ対話機能要素を介してユーザ入力を受信するため、前記ロボット機能要素を実行するステップと、
前記ユーザ入力および前記作業関連パラメータのセットに基づいて、前記ユーザ入力と協働して前記作業動作タイプの少なくとも１つの作業動作を実行するために、前記ロボットの前記少なくとも１つの機能を制御するステップと
を含む方法を実行する命令を含む非一時的コンピュータ可読記憶媒